--------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Translated from the Russian by David Floyd
     First published in Great Britain 1987 by Hamish Hamilton Ltd
     ISBN 0-241-11961-8
     OCR: 28 Dec 2001 by MadMax
     Origin: http://www.geocities.com/Suvorov_book/
--------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Viktor Suvorov. Spetsnaz.


      The Inside Story of the Soviet Special Forces





                           To Natasha and Alexander







      Chapter 1. Spades and Men



     Every  infantryman in the Soviet  Army  carries with him a small spade.
When he is given the order to halt he  immediately  lies flat  and starts to
dig a hole in  the ground beside  him. In three minutes he will have  dug  a
little trench 15 centimetres deep, in which  he can lie  stretched out flat,
so that bullets can  whistle harmlessly over his head. The earth he has  dug
out forms a  breastwork in  front and at  the side  to  act as an additional
cover. If a tank drives over such a trench the soldier has a 50% chance that
it will do him no harm. At any moment the soldier  may be ordered to advance
again and, shouting at the top  of his voice, will rush ahead.  If he is not
ordered to advance, he digs in deeper and deeper. At first his trench can be
used for firing in the lying position. Later  it becomes a trench from which
to  fire  in  the kneeling  position,  and  later  still,  when  it  is  110
centimetres  deep, it can  be used for firing  in the standing position. The
earth that has been dug out protects the soldier from bullets and fragments.
He makes an embrasure in this breastwork into which he positions the  barrel
of his gun. In  the absence of  any further commands he continues to work on
his trench. He camouflages it. He starts to dig a trench to connect with his
comrades to the left of him. He always digs from right to left, and in a few
hours  the unit has a  trench linking all the riflemen's trenches  together.
The unit's  trenches are linked with  the trenches of  other units. Dug-outs
are built and communication trenches are added at the rear. The trenches are
made deeper,  covered over, camouflaged and reinforced. Then,  suddenly, the
order  to advance comes again. The soldier emerges, shouting and swearing as
loudly as he can.
     The  infantryman uses the  same spade for digging graves for his fallen
comrades. If he doesn't have  an axe to hand he uses  the spade  to chop his
bread when it is frozen hard as granite. He uses it as a paddle as he floats
across wide rivers on  a telegraph pole under enemy  fire. And  when he gets
the order to halt, he again builds his impregnable  fortress around himself.
He knows how to dig the earth efficiently. He builds his fortress exactly as
it  should be. The spade is not just an instrument for digging:  it can also
be used for measuring.  It is  50 centimetres long.  Two spade lengths are a
metre. The blade is 15 centimetres wide and 18 centimetres long.  With these
measurements in mind the soldier can measure anything he wishes.
     The infantry spade does not have a folding handle,  and this is  a very
important feature. It has to be a single monolithic object. All three of its
edges are as sharp as a knife.  It is painted with a green matt paint so  as
not to reflect the strong sunlight.
     The spade  is not only a tool and a measure. It is also a  guarantee of
the steadfastness of the infantry  in the  most difficult situations. If the
infantry have a few hours to dig themselves in, it could  take years to  get
them  out  of their  holes and trenches, whatever  modern weapons  are  used
against them.

        ___

     In this book we are not talking about  the infantry  but about soldiers
belonging to  other units,  known  as  spetsnaz.  These  soldiers  never dig
trenches; in fact they never take up defensive positions. They either launch
a  sudden  attack on an  enemy or, if they meet with  resistance or superior
enemy forces, they  disappear  as quickly  as they appeared  and  attack the
enemy again where and when the enemy least expects them to appear.
     Surprisingly, the  spetsnaz  soldiers  also carry the  little  infantry
spades.  Why do they need them?  It is practically impossible to describe in
words  how  they use their spades. You really have to see what they  do with
them. In  the hands  of a spetsnaz soldier the spade is a terrible noiseless
weapon and every  member of spetsnaz  gets much  more training in the use of
his spade then does the infantryman. The first thing he has to teach himself
is precision: to split little  slivers of wood with the edge of the spade or
to cut off the neck of a  bottle so that the bottle remains whole. He has to
learn to love his spade and have faith in its accuracy. To do that he places
his hand on the  stump of a tree with the fingers spread out and takes a big
swing at the stump with his right hand using the edge of the spade.  Once he
has learnt  to  use the spade  well  and truly as an axe he  is  taught more
complicated things.  The little  spade can be used in  hand-to-hand fighting
against blows from  a bayonet, a knife, a fist or another  spade.  A soldier
armed  with nothing  but the spade  is shut in a  room without windows along
with a mad dog, which makes for an interesting contest. Finally a soldier is
taught  to throw the spade  as  accurately  as  he would  use a  sword  or a
battle-axe. It is a  wonderful weapon for throwing, a single,  well-balanced
object, whose 32-centimetre handle acts as a lever for throwing. As it spins
in flight  it gives  the spade accuracy and thrust. It becomes  a terrifying
weapon. If it lands in a tree it is not so  easy to pull out again. Far more
serious is it if it hits someone's skull, although spetsnaz members  usually
do not aim at the enemy's face but at his back. He will rarely see the blade
coming, before it lands in the back  of  his  neck or between  his  shoulder
blades, smashing the bones.
     The  spetsnaz  soldier  loves  his  spade. He  has  more faith  in  its
reliability  and  accuracy than  he  has  in  his Kalashnikov  automatic. An
interesting  psychological   detail  has  been  observed  in  the   kind  of
hand-to-hand  confrontations which are  the stock in trade of spetsnaz. If a
soldier fires  at an enemy armed with an automatic, the enemy also shoots at
him. But if he doesn't fire at the enemy but throws a  spade at him instead,
the enemy simply drops his gun and jumps to one side.
     This is a  book about people who  throw  spades  and about soldiers who
work with spades more surely and more accurately than they do with spoons at
a table. They do, of course, have other weapons besides their spades.

--------

      Chapter 2. Spetsnaz and the GRU



     It is impossible to translate the Russian  word razvedka precisely into
any foreign language. It is usually rendered as `reconnaissance' or `spying'
or `intelligence  gathering'. A  fuller  explanation  of the word is that it
describes any means and any actions aimed at obtaining information about  an
enemy, analysing it and understanding it properly.
     Every Soviet military headquarters  has its own machinery for gathering
and  analysing  information about the  enemy. The information thus collected
and analysed about the enemy is passed  on to other headquarters, higher up,
lower down and  on the same level,  and each headquarters  in turn  receives
information about the enemy not only from its own  sources but also from the
other headquarters.
     If  some  military  unit  should be  defeated  in  battle  through  its
ignorance  of the enemy, the commanding officer and his chief of  staff have
no right to blame the fact that they were not well enough informed about the
enemy.  The most  important task for  every commander  and chief of staff is
that, without  waiting for  information to  arrive from elsewhere, they must
organise their own sources of information about the enemy and warn their own
forces and their superior headquarters of any danger that is threatened.
     Spetsnaz is one of the forms of Soviet military razvedka which occupies
a place somewhere between reconnaissance and intelligence.
     It is the name given to the shock troops of razvedka in which there are
combined  elements  of   espionage,   terrorism   and  large-scale  partisan
operations. In personal terms, this covers a very diverse  range of  people:
secret agents  recruited by Soviet  military  razvedka  among foreigners for
carrying out espionage and terrorist operations; professional units composed
of the country's best sportsmen; and units made up of ordinary but carefully
selected  and well  trained  soldiers.  The  higher  the  level  of a  given
headquarters is, the more spetsnaz units it has at its disposal and the more
professionals there are among the spetsnaz troops.
     The  term  spetsnaz is  a  composite  word made  up  from  spetsialnoye
nazhacheniye, meaning `special purpose'. The  name is well chosen.  Spetsnaz
differs from  other forms of razvedka in  that it  not only  seeks and finds
important enemy  targets, but in the majority of cases attacks  and destroys
them.
     Spetsnaz  has  a long history,  in  which  there  have been periods  of
success and  periods of decline. After the Second World War  spetsnaz was in
the  doldrums,  but  from  the mid-1950s  a new  era  in the  history of the
organisation  began  with the  West's  new  deployment  of  tactical nuclear
weapons. This development  created  for  the  Soviet Army, which  had always
prepared  itself, and  still does, only for  `liberation'  wars  on  foreign
territory, a practically insuperable barrier. Soviet strategy could continue
along  the same lines only  if  the  means could  be found to remove Western
tactical nuclear weapons from the path of the Soviet  troops, without at the
same time turning the enemy's territory into a nuclear desert.
     The destruction of  the  tactical nuclear weapons  which  render Soviet
aggression  impossible  or  pointless  could  be  carried  out  only  if the
whereabouts  of  all, or at  least  the  majority,  of  the enemy's tactical
nuclear weapons were established. But this in itself  presented a tremendous
problem. It is very easy to conceal tactical  missiles, aircraft and nuclear
artillery and, instead of  deploying real  missiles and guns, the enemy  can
deploy  dummies,  thus  diverting  the  attention  of  Soviet  razvedka  and
protecting the real tactical nuclear weapons under cover.
     The  Soviet high  command therefore had to devise the sort of  means of
detection that could approach very close to the enemy's weapons  and in each
case provide a  precise answer to the question of whether they were real, or
just well  produced  dummies.  But even if a tremendous  number  of  nuclear
batteries were discovered in good time,  that  did not solve the problem. In
the  time  it  takes  for  the  transmission   of   the   reports  from  the
reconnaissance  units  to  the   headquarters,  for  the  analysis   of  the
information  obtained and  the preparation of  the  appropriate command  for
action, the  battery can have changed  position several times. So forces had
to be created that would be able to seek  out, find and  destroy immediately
the nuclear weapons discovered  in  the course of war or immediately  before
its outbreak.
     Spetsnaz  was,  and  is,   precisely  such  an  instrument,  permitting
commanding officers  at army level and higher to establish independently the
whereabouts of the enemy's most dangerous weapons and to destroy them on the
spot.
     Is it possible for spetsnaz to pinpoint and destroy every single one of
the enemy's nuclear  weapons? Of course not. So what is the solution to this
problem?  It is very simple. Spetsnaz has to make  every effort to find  and
destroy the  enemy's nuclear armament. Nuclear strength represents the teeth
of the state and it has to be knocked out with the first blow, possibly even
before the fighting begins. But if it proves impossible to knock out all the
teeth  with the first blow,  then a  blow  has to be struck not just  at the
teeth but at the brain and nervous system of the state.
     When we speak  of the  `brain'  we mean the  country's  most  important
statesmen  and politicians. In this context the  leaders  of the  opposition
parties are regarded as equally important candidates for destruction as  the
leaders of the party in power. The opposition is simply  the state's reserve
brain, and it would  be silly  to destroy  the main  decision-making  system
without putting the reserve system out of action. By the same token we mean,
for example, the principal military leaders and police chiefs, the  heads of
the  Church and trade unions and in general all the people  who might  at  a
critical moment appeal to the nation and who are well known to the nation.
     By the `nervous system'  of the state we mean the principal centres and
lines  of   government  and  military  communications,  and  the  commercial
communications  companies, including the main radio stations and  television
studios.
     It  would hardly be  possible, of  course,  to  destroy the brain,  the
nervous system and the  teeth at once, but  a simultaneous blow at all three
of the  most important organs could, in the opinion  of  the Soviet leaders,
substantially reduce a  nation's  capacity for  action in the event  of war,
especially at its  initial and most critical  stage. Some  missiles will  be
destroyed and others will not  be fired because there will be nobody to give
the appropriate command or because the command will not be passed on in time
due to the breakdown of communications.
     Having  within its sphere an  organisation  like  spetsnaz,  and having
tested  its potential on numerous exercises, the Soviet high command came to
the conclusion  that spetsnaz  could be used  with success not  only against
tactical but  also against strategic nuclear installations: submarine bases,
weapon stockpiles, aircraft bases and missile launching sites.
     Spetsnaz could be used too,  they realised, against the heart and blood
supply of  the  state: ie.  its source and distribution  of  energy -- power
stations, transformer stations and  power  lines,  as  well  as oil and  gas
pipelines  and storage points, pumping station and oil  refineries.  Putting
even a few of the enemy's more important power stations out  of action could
present him with a catastrophic situation. Not only would there be no light:
factories would be  brought to a standstill, lifts would cease to work,  the
refrigeration installations would be useless, hospitals would find it almost
impossible  to  function,  blood stored  in  refrigerators  would  begin  to
coagulate,  traffic  lights, petrol pumps and trains  would  come to a halt,
computers would cease to operate.
     Even  this short list must  lead to the conclusion that Soviet military
razvedka  (the GRU)  and its integral spetsnaz is  something more  than  the
`eyes and ears of the Soviet Army'.  As a special branch of the GRU spetsnaz
is intended primarily for action in time of  war  and in  the very last days
and hours before it breaks  out.  But  spetsnaz  is  not idle  in  peacetime
either. I am sometimes asked: if we are  talking  about terrorism on such  a
scale,  we must  be talking  about the  KGB.  Not so.  There are three  good
reasons  why spetsnaz is a part of the  GRU and not of the KGB. The first is
that if the  GRU and  spetsnaz were  to be removed from the  Soviet Army and
handed over to the KGB, it would be equivalent to blindfolding a strong man,
while plugging his ears and depriving him  of some other  important  organs,
and making him fight with the information he needs for  fighting provided by
another person  standing beside him and  telling him the  moves.  The Soviet
leaders have tried  on more than one occasion  to do this and it  has always
ended  in catastrophe. The  information provided by  the  secret  police was
always imprecise, late  and insufficient, and the actions of  a blind giant,
predictably, were neither accurate or effective.
     Secondly, if the  functions of the GRU  and spetsnaz were  to be handed
over to  the KGB, then in the event of a catastrophe  (inevitable in such  a
situation) any Soviet commanding officer or chief of staff could say that he
had not had sufficient information about the enemy, that for example a vital
aerodrome and a missile battery  nearby had  not been destroyed by the KGB's
forces. These would be perfectly justified complaints, although it is in any
case impossible  to destroy every aerodrome, every missile battery and every
command post  because the  supply of information in  the course of battle is
always  insufficient. Any commanding  officer who receives information about
the enemy can think of a  million supplementary questions to which  there is
no answer. There is  only one way out of the  situation, and that is to make
every commanding officer responsible for gathering his own information about
the enemy and to provide him with all the means for defeating his own enemy.
Then,  if the  information  is insufficient or  some targets  have not  been
destroyed, only he and his chief of staff are to blame. They must themselves
organise the collection and interpretation of information  about  the enemy,
so as  to  have, if not all the  information,  at  least the most  essential
information at  the right  time. They must organise  the  operation of their
forces so as to destroy the most important obstacles which the enemy has put
in the way of  their  advance.  This is the only way to ensure victory.  The
Soviet  political leadership, the KGB and the military  leaders have all had
every opportunity to convince themselves that there is no other.
     Thirdly,  the Soviet secret  police,  the  KGB,  carries out  different
functions and has other  priorities.  It  has its  own terrorist  apparatus,
which includes an organisation very similar to spetsnaz, known as osnaz. The
KGB uses osnaz for carrying  out  a range of tasks  not  dissimilar in  many
cases to those performed  by the  GRU's  spetsnaz.  But  the  Soviet leaders
consider that it is best not to have any monopolies in  the field  of secret
warfare. Competition, they feel, gives far better results than ration.
     Osnaz is not a subject I propose to deal with  in this book. Only a KGB
officer  directly connected  with  osnaz  could  describe  what  it  is.  My
knowledge is very  limited. But just  as  a  book about  Stalin would not be
complete without  some reference  to  Hitler, osnaz should not be overlooked
here.
     The term osnaz is usually met only in secret documents. In unclassified
documents the term is written out in full as  osobogo  nazhacheniya  or else
reduced  to  the  two  letters  `ON'.  In  cases  where a  longer  title  is
abbreviated the letters ON  are run together with the preceding letters. For
example, DON means `division of osnaz', OON means a `detachment of osnaz".
     The  two words  osoby and  spetsialny are  close in  meaning but  quite
different words. In translation it is difficult to find a precise equivalent
for these two  words, which is why it is  easier to  use the terms osnaz and
spetsnaz   without  translating  them.  Osnaz  apparently  came  into  being
practically at  the same  time  as the Communist  dictatorship. In  the very
first moments  of  the existence of  the Soviet regime we find references to
detachments osobogo nazhacheniya -- special purpose detachments. Osnaz means
military-terrorist  units  which  came into being  as  shock troops  of  the
Communist  Party whose job  was to defend  the party. Osnaz was later handed
over to the  secret police, which changed  its own name from time to time as
easily as a snake  changes its skin: Cheka -- VCheka -- OGPU -- NKVD -- NKGB
-- MGB -- MVD -- KGB. Once a snake, however, always a snake.
     It is  the fact  the  spetsnaz  belongs to the  army,  and osnaz to the
secret  police, that accounts for all the differences between them. Spetsnaz
operates mainly  against external enemies; osnaz does the same but mainly in
its own territory and  against its own  citizens.  Even if both spetsnaz and
osnaz are  faced  with  carrying  out one and the same operation the  Soviet
leadership is not inclined to rely so  much on co-operation between the army
and the secret police as on the strong competitive instincts between them.

--------

      Chapter 3. A History of Spetsnaz



     In order  to grasp the history behind spetsnaz it is useful to cast our
minds  back to the British  Parliament in the time  of Henry VIII. In 1516 a
Member of the Parliament, Thomas More, published an excellent  book entitled
Utopia. In it  he showed,  simply and persuasively, that it was very easy to
create  a   society  in  which  universal  justice  reigned,  but  that  the
consequences  of doing so would  be terrible. More  describes a  society  in
which  there is no private property and in which everything is controlled by
the state.  The  state of Utopia is completely  isolated  from  the  outside
world, as  completely as the bureaucratic  class rules  the population.  The
supreme  ruler  is  installed for his  lifetime.  The country itself, once a
peninsula,  has after monumental  efforts on the part of  the population and
the  army  to build a deep canal  dividing it  from  the rest of the  world,
become  an  island.  Slavery has  been  introduced,  but  the  rest  of  the
population  live no better than slaves. People do not have their  own homes,
with the result that anybody can at any time go  into any home he wishes,  a
system which is worse even than the regulations in the Soviet Army today, in
which  the  barracks  of  each  company  are  open only to soldiers of  that
company.
     In fact the system in Utopia begins to look more like that in  a Soviet
concentration camp. In Utopia, of course, it is laid down when people are to
rise (at  four o'clock in the morning), when they are  to go  to bed and how
many minutes' rest they  may have.  Every  day starts with public  lectures.
People must travel on a group passport, signed by the Mayor, and if they are
caught without  a passport outside their  own  district  they  are  severely
punished  as deserters. Everybody  keeps  a  close watch  on his  neighbour:
`Everyone has his eye on you.'
     With fine English humour Thomas More describes the ways in which Utopia
wages war.  The whole population of Utopia,  men and  women, are trained  to
fight. Utopia wages only  just wars in self-defence and, of course, for  the
liberation of other  peoples.  The  people of Utopia consider it their right
and their  duty  to  establish  a  similarly  just  regime  in  neighbouring
countries. Many of the surrounding countries have already been liberated and
are now ruled, not by local leaders, but by  administators from  Utopia. The
liberation of the other peoples  is carried out in the name of humanism. But
Thomas More does not explain to us what this `humanism' is. Utopia's allies,
in  receipt  of  military  aid  from  her,  turn   the  populations  of  the
neighbouring states into slaves.
     Utopia  provokes  conflicts and contradictions in  the  countries which
have not  yet  been liberated.  If someone in such a country  speaks out  in
favour of capitulating to Utopia  he  can expect  a  big reward  later.  But
anyone who  calls upon the people to fight Utopia can expect only slavery or
death,  with his property split up and distributed to those  who  capitulate
and collaborate.
     On the  outbreak of war Utopia's agents in the enemy country post up in
prominent  places  announcements concerning the reward to be  paid to anyone
killing the king. It is a tremendous sum of money. There  is  also a list of
other people for whose murder large sums of money will be paid.
     The direct result of these measures is that universal  suspicion reigns
in the enemy country.
     Thomas More describes  only one of the strategems  employed, but it  is
the most important:

     When the  battle  is at its height a  group of specially selected young
men, who have sworn to stick together, try to  knock out the enemy  general.
They keep hammering away at him by every possible method -- frontal attacks,
ambushes, long-range  archery, hand-to-hand combat. They bear down on him in
a  long, unbroken wedge-formation, the point of which is constantly  renewed
as  tired men are replaced by fresh ones. As a result the  general is nearly
always killed or taken prisoner -- unless he saves his skin by running away.

     It is  the  groups of `specially  selected young men' that  I  want  to
discuss in this book.

        ___

     Four  hundred  years  after  the  appearance  of Utopia  the  frightful
predictions of that wise Englishman became a reality in Russia. A successful
attempt was made to create a society of universal justice. I had read Thomas
More's  frightening  forecasts when I was still a child and I was  amazed at
the staggering  realism  with  which Utopia was described and how strikingly
similar it was to the Soviet Union: a place  where all the towns looked like
each other, people knew  nothing  about  what was happening abroad  or about
fashion  in clothes (everybody being dressed more or less the same), and  so
forth. More even described the  situation of people `who think differently'.
In  Utopia, he said, `It is illegal for  any such person to argue in defence
of his beliefs.'
     The Soviet Union is actually a very mild version of Utopia -- a sort of
`Utopia with a human face'. A person can travel  in the Soviet Union without
having an  internal  passport, and  Soviet bureaucrats do  not yet have such
power over the family as  their Utopia  counterparts who added up the number
of  men and women  in  each  household  and,  if they  exceeded  the  number
permitted, simply  transferred the superfluous members  to another  house or
even another town where there was a shortage of them.
     The Communists genuinely have a great deal left to do before they bring
society  down to  the level  of Utopia. But  much  has  already  been  done,
especially in the military sphere,  and in  particular  in  the creation  of
`specially selected groups of young men'.
     It is interesting to note that such groups were  formed even before the
Red Army existed, before the Red Guard,  and even before the Revolution. The
origins of spetsnaz are to  be found  in the  revolutionary terrorism of the
nineteenth  century, when numerous  groups  of  young  people were ready  to
commit murder, or possibly suicide,  in the cause of  creating a society  in
which everything would be  divided  equally  between everybody. As they went
about  murdering  others  or   getting  killed  themselves  they  failed  to
understand one simple truth: that  in order to create a just society you had
to create a control mechanism. The juster the society one wants to build the
more complete must be the control over production and consumption.
     Many of the first  leaders of the  Red Army had  been terrorists in the
past, before the Revolution. For  example, one of the outstanding organisers
of  the Red Army,  Mikhail Frunze, after whom the  principal Soviet military
academy is named, had twice been sentenced to  death  before the Revolution.
At  the time  it  was  by  no  means easy  to get  two death sentences.  For
organising a party which aimed at  the overthrow of the  existing  regime by
force, Lenin received only three years of deportation in which he lived well
and  comfortably and spent his  time shooting, fishing and openly  preaching
revolution. And the woman terrorist Vera Zasulich, who murdered a provincial
governor was acquitted by a Russian court. The  court was independent of the
state and reckoned that, if  she had killed  for political reasons, it meant
that  she  had been prompted by her conscience and her  beliefs and that her
acts could not be regarded  as a crime. In  this  climate Mikhail Frunze had
managed  to receive two death sentences. Neither  of  them was  carried out,
naturally. On both  occasions the sentence was commuted to deportation, from
which he had no great difficulty in escaping. It was while he  was in  exile
that  Frunze organised a  circle  of like-minded people which was called the
`Military Academy':  a  real school for terrorists, which drew up  the first
strategy to be followed  up by armed detachments of Communists in the  event
of an uprising.
     The seizure of power by  the Bolsheviks  demonstrated, primarily to the
revolutionaries themselves,  that  it  was  possible  to neutralise  a  vast
country  and then to bring it  under  control simply and  quickly. What  was
needed were `groups of specially selected young men' capable  of putting out
of action the government, the postal services,  the telegraph and telephone,
and the  railway terminals  and  bridges in the  capital.  Paralysis at  the
centre meant  that  counteraction on  the outskirts  was split up.  Outlying
areas could be dealt with later one at a time.
     Frunze was  undoubtedly a brilliant theoretician  and practician of the
art of war, including  partisan warfare and terrorism. During the  Civil War
he  commanded an army and a number  of fronts. After  Trotsky's dismissal he
took over as People's Commissar for military and naval  affairs. During  the
war  he reorganised the large but badly led partisan formations into regular
divisions  and  armies  which were subordinated  to the  strict  centralised
administration. At the same time, while commanding those formations, he kept
sending  relatively small but  very  reliable  mobile units to fight  in the
enemy's rear.
     The Civil War was fought over vast  areas, a war  of movement without a
continuous  stable front and with an enormous number of all sorts of armies,
groups,  independent detachments and bands. It was a partisan war  in spirit
and  in content. Armies developed out of  small, scattered detachments,  and
whenever they were defeated  they  were able to  disintegrate  into  a large
number of independent units which carried on the war on a partisan scale.
     But we  are not concerned here  with the partisan war as a whole,  only
with  the fighting  units of the  regular  Red  Army  specially  created for
operating  in  the enemy's rear. Such units existed  on various  fronts  and
armies.  They  were  not known  as  spetsnaz, but  this did not alter  their
essential nature, and it  was not just Frunze who appreciated the importance
of being  able  to  use regular  units  in the rear  of the enemy.  Trotsky,
Stalin,  Voroshilov,  Tukhachevsky, inter  alia,  supported the strategy and
made extensive use of it.
     Revolutionary war  against the  capitalist  powers  started immediately
after the  Bolsheviks  seized  power.  As the  Red  Army  `liberated'  fresh
territory  and  arrived at the frontiers with other countries the  amount of
subversion directed against them increased. The end of the Civil War did not
mean the end of the secret war  being  waged by the Communists against their
neighbours. On  the contrary, it was stepped up, because, once the Civil War
war was over, forces were released for other kinds of warfare.
     Germany  was  the first target  for revolution.  It  is interesting  to
recall that, as early as December 1917, a  Communist  newspaper Die  Fackel,
was  being published in  Petrograd with a circulation of 500,000 copies.  In
January 1918  a  Communist group called `Spartak' emerged in the same place.
In April 1918  another  newspaper Die Weltrevolution, began to  appear.  And
finally, in August 1919, the famous paper of the German Communists, Die Rote
Fahne, was founded in Moscow.
     At the same  time as  the  first Communist  groups appeared, steps were
taken to  train terrorist fighting units of  German Communists. These  units
were used for  suppressing the  anti-Communist resistance put up by  Russian
and Ukrainian peasants. Then, in 1920, all  the units  of  German Communists
were gathered  together in the  rear  of the Red  Army on the Western front.
That was when the Red  Army  was  preparing for a breakthrough across Poland
and into Germany. The Red Army's official marching  song, `Budenny's March',
included these words: `We're taking Warsaw -- Take Berlin too!'
     In that year the Bolsheviks did not succeed in organising revolution in
Germany  or even  in  `liberating' Poland.  At the  time Soviet  Russia  was
devastated by the First World War and by  the far more  terrible  Civil War.
Famine, typhus and destruction raged across the country. But in 1923 another
attempt  was  made  to  provoke  a revolution  in Germany.  Trotsky  himself
demanded in September 1923 to  be relieved  of all his Party and  Government
posts and to be sent as an ordinary soldier to the barricades of the  German
Revolution. The  party did  not  send Trotsky  there,  but sent other Soviet
Communist leaders, among  them, Iosef Unshlikht. At  the time  he was deputy
chairman of the Cheka secret police. Now he was appointed deputy head of the
`registration   administration',   now   known   as  the  GRU  or   military
intelligence, and it  was in this  position  that  he was sent illegally  to
Germany. `Unshlikht  was given the task  of organising the detachments which
were to carry  out the armed  uprising and coup d'état,  recruiting them and
providing them with  weapons. He also had  the  job  of  organising a German
Cheka  for  the  extermination  of  the  bourgeoisie  and  opponents  of the
Revolution  after  the  transfer  of power....  This  was  how  the  planned
Revolution  was planned to take place. On the occasion of the anniversary of
the Russian October  Revolution the working masses were to  come out  on the
streets for  mass demonstrations. Unshlikht's "Red hundreds" were to provoke
clashes with the police so as to cause bloodshed and more serious conflicts,
to inflame the  workers'  indignation  and carry out a general working-class
uprising.'1

     1  B.  Bazhanov: `Memoirs of a Secretary to  Stalin', pub. Tretya volna
1980, pp 67-69.

     In  view of the instability of German Society at that time, the absence
of a powerful  army, the widespread discontent and the frequent outbursts of
violence, especially  in  1923,  the  plan  might have been  realised.  Many
experts  are  inclined  to  the  view  that  Germany  really  was  close  to
revolution.  Soviet  military  intelligence and  its terrorist  units led by
Unshlikht were expected to do no more than put the spark to the powder keg.
     There were  many reasons why the plans came to  nothing. But there were
two especially important ones: the absence of  a common frontier between the
USSR and Germany, and the split in the German Communist Party. The lack of a
common frontier was at the time a serious obstacle to  the  penetration into
Germany of substantial forces of Soviet  subversives. Stalin understood this
very well, and he was always fighting to have  Poland crushed so that common
frontiers could be established with Germany. When he succeeded in doing this
in  1939, it was  a risky step,  since a common frontier  with Germany meant
that Germany could attack the  USSR without warning,  as indeed happened two
years later. But without a common frontier Stalin could not get into Europe.
     The  split in  the  German  Communist  Party  was  an  equally  serious
hindrance to the carrying out  of  Soviet plans. One  group pursued  policy,
subservient to the Comintern and consequently to the Soviet Politburo, while
the other pursued an antagonistic one. Zinoviev was `extremely displeased by
this and he raised the question in the Politburo of presenting Maslov one of
the  dissenting German Communist leaders with an ultimatum:  either he would
take a  large  sum of money,  leave the  party and get  out  of Germany,  or
Unshlikht would be given orders to liquidate him.'2

     2 Ibid. p. 68

        ___

     At the same time  as preparations  were being made  for  revolution  in
Germany  preparations  were  also  going  ahead  for  revolutions  in  other
countries. For example, in September  1923, groups of terrorists  trained in
the  USSR  (of  both  Bulgarian  and  Soviet  nationality)  started  causing
disturbances in Bulgaria which  could very  well have developed into a state
of general  chaos and bloodletting. But the  `revolution' was suppressed and
its ringleaders escaped to the Soviet Union. Eighteen months later, in April
1925,  the  attempt  was  repeated.  This  time  unknown  persons  caused  a
tremendous explosion in  the main cathedral in Sofia in the  hope of killing
the king  and the whole government. Boris III had  a miraculous escape,  but
attempts to destabilise Bulgaria  by acts of terrorism continued until 1944,
when the Red  Army at last entered  Bulgaria. Another miracle then seemed to
take  place, because  from that  moment  on nobody  has  tried  to shoot the
Bulgarian rulers and  no one has let off any bombs. The terror did continue,
but it was aimed at the population of the country as a whole rather than the
rulers.  And then  Bulgarian terrorism  spread  beyond the frontiers of  the
country and appeared on the streets of Western Europe.
     The  campaign of terrorism against  Finland  is closely linked with the
name of the Finnish Communist Otto  Kuusinen who  was one  of the leaders of
the  Communist  revolt  in  Finland  in  1918.  After  the  defeat   of  the
`revolution'  he  escaped to  Moscow  and  later  returned  to  Finland  for
underground  work. In  1921 he again fled  to  Moscow  to  save himself from
arrest. From that  moment  Kuusinen's career  was closely linked with Soviet
military intelligence officers. Kuusinen had an official  post  and did  the
same work: preparing  for the overthrow of democracy in  Finland  and  other
countries.  In his secret career Kuusinen had some notable successes. In the
mid-1930s he rose to be deputy head of Razvedupr as the  GRU was known then.
Under Kuusinen's direction an effective espionage  network  was organised in
the Scandinavian countries, and at the same time he directed the training of
military units which were to carry out acts of terrorism in those countries.
As early as the summer of 1918 an officer school was founded in Petrograd to
train men for the `Red Army of Finland'. This school later trained  officers
for  other `Red  Armies' and became the International Military School  -- an
institute of higher education for terrorists.
     After  the  Civil  War  was  over  Kuusinen  insisted  on  carrying  on
underground  warfare  on  Finnish  territory  and keeping the best  units of
Finnish  Communists  in  existence.  In  1939, after the  Red  Army  invaded
Finland, he proclaimed himself  `prime  minister  and  minister  of  foreign
affairs' of  the  `Finnish  Democratic Republic'.  The `government' included
Mauri Rosenberg  (from  the GRU) as `deputy  prime minister', Axel Antila as
`minister of defence' and the NKVD interrogator Tuure Lekhen as `minister of
internal affairs'.  But the Finnish people put up such  resistance  that the
Kuusinen government's  bid to turn Finland into a `people's republic'  was a
failure.
     (A  curious fact of history must  be mentioned here.  When the  Finnish
Communists  formed their government on  Soviet territory and started  a  war
against their own  country, voluntary formations of  Russians were formed in
Finland which  went into battle  against  both  the Soviet  and  the Finnish
Communists. A notable member  of these genuinely  voluntary units  was Boris
Bazhanov, formerly Stalin's personal secretary, who had fled to the West.)
     Otto Kuusinen's unsuccessful attempt to  become the  ruler of Communist
Finland  did  not bring his career to an  end. He continued it with success,
first in the GRU and later in the Department of Administrative Organs of the
Central Committee of the CPSU -- the body  that supervises all the espionage
and terrorist  institutions in the Soviet  Union,  as  well as the  prisons,
concentration camps, courts and so  forth. From 1957 until his death in 1964
Kuusinen was one of the most powerful leaders in  the  Soviet Union, serving
simultaneously as  a  member of the Politburo and a Secretary of the Central
Committee of  the Party. In the  Khodynki  district of Moscow, where the GRU
has its headquarters,  one  of the  bigger streets is  called  Otto Kuusinen
Street.
     In the course of  the Civil War  and  after it, Polish units, too, were
formed  and  went into  action on  Soviet territory. One example was the 1st
Revolutionary  Regiment,  `Red  Warsaw',  which  was  used for  putting down
anti-Communist revolts  in  Moscow,  Tambov  and Yaroslav.  For  suppressing
anti-Communist revolts  by the  Russian  population  the  Communists  used a
Yugoslav  regiment,  a  Czechoslovak  regiment, and  many other  formations,
including Hungarians, Rumanians, Austrians  and others. After the  Civil War
all these  formations provided a base for the recruitment of spies  and  for
setting  up subversive combat  detachments for operating on the territory of
capitalist states. For example, a  group  of Hungarian Communist  terrorists
led by Ferenc  Kryug, fought against Russian peasants  in  the Civil War; in
the Second World War Kryug led a special purpose group operating in Hungary.
     Apart  from the  `internationalist'  fighters,  i.e. people of  foreign
extraction,  detachments were organised in the  Soviet  Union  for operating
abroad which were composed entirely, or very largely, of Soviet citizens.  A
bitter battle was  fought between the army commanders and the  secret police
for control of these detachments.
     On 2 August 1930 a  small detachment of commando  troops was dropped in
the  region of  Voronezh and was supposed during the manoeuvres to carry out
operations  in the  rear  of  the `enemy'. Officially this is  the date when
Soviet airborne  troops  came  into  being. But  it  is  also the  date when
spetsnaz was born. Airborne troops and  spetsnaz  troops  subsequently  went
through a parallel development. At  certain points in  its history  spetsnaz
passed  out of the control of military intelligence  into the  hands  of the
airborne forces, at  others the  airborne  troops  exercised  administrative
control while military intelligence had operational control. But  in the end
it was  reckoned to be more  expedient  to  hand spetsnaz  over entirely  to
military  intelligence. The  progress of spetsnaz over the  following thirty
years cannot be studied in  isolation from the  development of  the airborne
forces.
     1930 marked the beginning of  a  serious  preoccupation  with parachute
troops in the USSR. In 1931 separate detachments of  parachutists  were made
into battalions  and a little later into regiments. In 1933 an osnaz brigade
was formed in  the Leningrad military district.  It included a  battalion of
parachutists,  a battalion of mechanised infantry,  a battalion of artillery
and  three squadrons of aircraft. However, it turned out to be of little use
to the Army, because it was  not only too large and too awkward  to  manage,
but  also under the authority of  the NKVD rather than the GRU. After a long
dispute  this  brigade and several others  created on the same  pattern were
reorganised into airborne brigades and handed over entirely to the Army.
     To  begin with, the  airborne  forces or  VDV  consisted  of  transport
aircraft, airborne regiments  and brigades,  squadrons of  heavy bombers and
separate reconnaissance  units. It is these reconnaissance units that are of
interest to us. How many there were of them and  how many men  they included
is not known.  There  is fragmentary  information about  their  tactics  and
training. But it is known, for example, that one of the training schools was
situated in Kiev.  It was a secret school and operated under the disguise of
a parachute club,  while being completely under the control of the Razvedupr
(GRU). It included a lot of women. In the course of the  numerous manoeuvres
that were held, the  reconnaissance units were dropped in  the rear  of  the
`enemy' and made attacks on his  command points, headquarters,  centres  and
lines of communications. It  is known that terrorist techniques were already
well advanced. For example, a mine had been developed for blowing up railway
bridges as trains passed over them. However,  bridges  are always especially
well  guarded,  so  the  experts  of  the   Razvedupr  and  the  Engineering
Directorate of the Red Army produced a mine that could be laid on the tracks
several  kilometres away from the bridge. A passing train would  pick up the
mine which  would detonate  at  the very moment when the train  was  on  the
bridge.
     To  give some idea of the scale of  the VDV,  on manoeuvres in 1934 900
men were dropped simultaneously by parachute. At the famous  Kiev manoeuvres
in 1935 no less than 1188 airborne  troops were dropped at once, followed by
a normal landing of 1765 men with light tanks, armoured cars and  artillery.
In Belorussia in 1936 there was an air drop of 1800  troops and a landing of
5700 men with  heavy weapons. In the Moscow military  district  in the  same
year  the whole of the 84th rifle division was transferred from one place to
another by  air.  Large-scale  and well  armed airborne attacks  were always
accompanied by the  dropping  in  neighbouring districts  of commando  units
which operated both in the interests of the security of the major  force and
in the interests of Razvedupr.
     In 1938 the  Soviet Union had  six airborne brigades  with  a  total of
18,000 men. This figure is,  however, deceptive,  since the  strength of the
`separate reconnaissance units' is not known, nor  are they included in that
figure.  Parachutists  were  also not trained by  the Red  Army alone but by
`civilian' clubs. In 1934 these  clubs had 400 parachute  towers  from which
members made up to half a million jumps, adding to their experience by jumps
from planes and balloons. Many Western  experts reckon that the Soviet Union
entered the Second World War with a million trained  parachutists, who could
be used both as airborne  troops and in special  units -- in the language of
today, in spetsnaz.

        ___

     A continual, hotly contested struggle was going on in the General Staff
of  the Red Army. On what territory  were the special detachments to operate
-- on the enemy's territory,  or on Soviet territory when it was occupied by
the enemy?
     For a long time the two policies existed side by side. Detachments were
trained to operate both on home territory and enemy territory as part of the
preparations to meet the enemy  in the  Western regions of the Soviet Union.
These  were carried out  very seriously. First of  all large  partisan units
were formed, made  up  of carefully  screened  and  selected  soldiers.  The
partisans went  on living in the towns and villages, but  went through their
regular military training and  were ready at any moment to take off into the
forests.  The  units  were  only  the  basis  upon  which  to  develop  much
larger-scale partisan warfare.  In  peacetime  they were  made up largely of
leaders and  specialists; in  the  course  of  the  fighting each  unit  was
expected to expand into a huge formation consisting of several thousand men.
For these formations hiding places  were prepared in  secluded locations and
stocked   with  weapons,  ammunition,  means  of  communications  and  other
necessary equipment.
     Apart from the partisans who were to take to the forests a vast network
of reconnaissance  and  commando troops was  prepared. The local inhabitants
were trained to carry out  reconnaissance and terrorist  operations and,  if
the enemy arrived, they  were supposed  to remain  in  place and pretend  to
submit to the enemy,  and  even work for him. These  networks were  supposed
later to organise a fierce campaign of terror inside the enemy garrisons. To
make it  easier  for the  partisans and  the terrorists to  operate,  secret
communication networks and supplies  were  set  up in peacetime,  along with
secret meeting places, underground hospitals,  command posts  and even  arms
factories.
     To make it easier for the partisans to operate on their own territory a
`destruction zone' was  created, also known as a `death  strip'. This  was a
strip  running  the length  of  the  Western frontiers  of the Soviet  Union
between 100 and 250 kilometres wide. Within that strip all  bridges, railway
depots,  tunnels,  water  storage tanks  and  electric  power stations  were
prepared for destruction by  explosive. Also in peacetime major  embankments
on railway lines  and  highways  and cuttings through which the roads passed
were made ready for  blowing  up. Means  of  communication, telephone lines,
even the permanent way, all were prepared for destruction.
     Immediately  behind  the  `death  strip'  came  the  `Stalin  Line'  of
exceptionally well fortified defences. The General Staff's idea was that the
enemy should be exhausted  in the `death strip'  on  the vast minefields and
huge obstacles and then get stuck on the line of fortifications. At the same
time the partisans would be constantly attacking him in the rear.
     It  was  a  magnificent  defence  system.  Bearing  in  mind  the  vast
territories involved and the poor network of roads, such a system could well
have made the whole of Soviet territory practically impassable for an enemy.
But -- in 1939 the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact was signed.
     The Pact was the signal for a  tremendous expansion of  Soviet military
strength. Everything connected with defence  was destroyed, while everything
connected with offensive actions was expanded at a great rate,  particularly
Soviet sabotage troops and the airborne troops connected with them. In April
1941 five airborne corps were  formed. All five were in  the first strategic
echelon of the Red Army,  three facing Germany and  two facing Rumania.  The
latter were more dangerous for Germany than  the  other  three,  because the
dropping of  even  one airborne corps  in Rumania  and the cutting off, even
temporarily, of supplies of oil to Germany meant the end of  the war for the
Germans.
     Five airborne corps in  1941 was more than  there were in all the other
countries of the world together. But this was not enough for  Stalin.  There
was a plan to create another five airborne corps, and the plan  was  carried
out in  August and September 1941. But in a defensive war Stalin did not, of
course,  need either the  first five or the  second five.  Any discussion of
Stalin's  `defence plans' must first of all explain how five airborne corps,
let alone ten, could be used in a defensive war.
     In a  war on one's own territory it is far  easier  during  a temporary
retreat to leave partisan forces or even complete fighting formations hidden
on the ground than it is to drop  them in later by parachute. But Stalin had
destroyed  such  formations, from which  one can  draw only one  conclusion;
Stalin  had prepared the  airborne corps specifically for  dropping on other
people's territory.
     At the  same time as the rapid  expansion of the airborne forces  there
was an equally rapid growth of the special reconnaissance units intended for
operations on enemy territory.
     The great British strategist  and historian B. H. Liddell Hart, dealing
with  this period, speaks of Hitler's fears  concerning Stalin's intentions,
referring  to  `a fatal attack in the  back from Russia'.3 And moves by  the
Soviet  Union in June 1940 did  evoke  particular nervousness in  the German
high command. Germany had thrown all her forces against France at that time,
and the Soviet  Union  rushed troops into the Baltic  states and Bessarabia.
The  airborne  troops  especially distinguished themselves. In June 1940 the
214th  Soviet airborne brigade was  dropped with the idea of seizing a group
of aerodromes  in  the region  of  Shaulyai  in  Lithuania, under  a hundred
kilometres from  the East Prussian border. In the  same month  the 201st and
204th airborne  brigades  were dropped in Bessarabia to capture the towns of
Ismail and  Belgrad-Dnestrovsky. This was close  by the  Ploesti  oilfields.
What would Stalin do if the  German Army advanced further into  North Africa
and the British Isles?

     3 Strategy. The Indirect Approach, p.241.

     It  is easy to  understand  why Hitler took  the decision  in that next
month, July  1940,  to  prepare for  war  against  the USSR.  It  was  quite
impossible for him to move  off the continent of Europe and into the British
Isles or Africa, leaving Stalin with his huge army  and terrifying  airborne
forces which were of no use to him for anything but a large-scale offensive.
     Hitler guessed rightly what  Stalin's plans were, as  is apparent  from
his letter to Mussolini of  21 June 1941.4  Can  we  believe Hitler? In this
case we probably can. The letter was  not  intended  for publication and was
never published in  Hitler's lifetime. It is  interesting in that it repeats
the thought  that  Stalin had  voiced  at  a secret meeting  of  the Central
Committee. Moreover,  in his  speech  at  the 18th Congress  of  the  Soviet
Communist Party  Stalin  had had this  to say about  Britain and France;  In
their policy of nonintervention  can be detected an attempt and a desire not
to prevent the aggressors from doing their dirty work... not to prevent, let
us say,  Germany getting bogged down in European  affairs and  involved in a
war... to let all the participants in the war  get  stuck deep in the mud of
battle,  to encourage  them to do this on the  quiet, to let them weaken and
exhaust each other,  and then, when they are sufficiently weakened, to enter
the arena  with fresh forces, acting of  course "in the interests of peace",
and  to  dictate their  own conditions  to the crippled participants in  the
war.'5 Once again, he was attributing  to others  motives which impelled him
in  his  ambitions.  Stalin  wanted  Europe to  exhaust itself.  And  Hitler
understood  that.  But  he understood too late.  He  should have  understood
before the Pact was signed.

     4 `I cannot  take responsibility  for the waiting any longer, because I
cannot see  any way  that the danger will disappear.... The concentration of
Soviet force is enormous....  All available Soviet  armed  forces are now on
our border.... It is  quite possible  that Russia will try  to  destroy  the
Rumanian oilfields.'

     5 Pravda, 11 March 1939.

     However, Hitler  still managed to upset  Stalin's plans by starting the
war first. The huge Soviet  forces intended for the `liberation' of Russia's
neighbours were quite unnecessary in the war of defence against Germany. The
airborne  corps were  used as ordinary infantry against the advancing German
tanks.  The  many  units  and groups of airborne  troops  and commandos were
forced  to retreat or  to dig trenches to  halt the advancing German troops.
The  airborne troops  trained for  operations  in the  territory  of foreign
countries were able to be used in the enemy's rear, but not in his territory
so much as in Soviet territory occupied by the German army.
     The reshaping of the whole philosophy of the  Red Army,  which had been
taught  to conduct an  offensive war  on other people's  territory, was very
painful but relatively short. Six months later  the Red Army  had  learnt to
defend itself and  in another year it had gone over to offensive operations.
From that moment everything fell into  place and the Red  Army, created only
for offensive operations, became once again victorious.
     The process of  reorganising the armed forces for operations on its own
territory  affected  all branches of  the  services,  including  the special
forces.  At the  beginning  of 1942  thirteen guards battalions6 of spetsnaz
were organised in the  Red Army for operations in the enemy's rear, as  well
as  one  guards  engineering  brigade   of  spetsnaz,   consisting  of  five
battalions. The  number of separate battalions  corresponded  exactly to the
number of fighting fronts. Each front received one  such battalion under its
command.  A  guards  brigade of  spetsnaz remained at  the  disposal of  the
Supreme   Commander-in-Chief,  to  be  used  only   with  Stalin's  personal
permission in the most crucial locations.

     6 In the Soviet Army the  title of `guards' can be won only in  battle,
the only exceptions being certain  formations  which were  awarded the title
when they were being formed. These included spetsnaz detachments.

     So as not to  reveal the  real name of spetsnaz, the independent guards
battalion and the  brigade were given  the code name of `guards minelayers'.
Only a very limited circle of people knew what the name concealed.
     A  special  razvedka   department  was  set  up  in  the   Intelligence
directorate  of each front to direct  the work  of  the `guards minelayers'.
Each  department  had  at its disposal  a battalion of  spetsnaz. Later  the
special razvedka departments began recruiting spetsnaz agents in territories
occupied  by the enemy. These agents were intended for providing support for
the  `minelayers'  when they appeared in  the enemy  rear. Subsequently each
special razvedka department  was provided  with  a  reconaissance  point  of
spetsnaz to recruit agents.
     The guards brigade  of spetsnaz was headed  by  one  of the outstanding
Soviet practitioners of fighting in  the rear of the enemy -- Colonel (later
Lieutenant-General) Moshe Ioffe.
     The number  of spetsnaz increased very quickly. In unclassified  Soviet
writings  we come  across  references to  the 16th and  the 33rd engineering
brigade of spetsnaz. Apart from  detachments operating  behind  the  enemy's
lines, other spetsnaz units were formed for different purposes: for example,
radio  battalions  for  destroying   the   enemy's  radio  links,  spreading
disinformation  and  tracing  the  whereabouts  of  enemy  headquarters  and
communication centres so as to facilitate the work of the spetsnaz terrorist
formations. It is known that from 1942 there existed the 130th, 131st, 132nd
and 226th independent radio battalions of spetsnaz.
     The  operations  carried out by the `minelayers' were  distinguished by
their  daring character  and  their  effectiveness.  They usually turned  up
behind  the   enemy's  lines  in  small  groups.  Sometimes  they   operated
independently, at others  they combined their operations with the partisans.
These joint operations always benefited both the partisans and spetsnaz. The
minelayers taught the partisans the most difficult  aspects  of  minelaying,
the  most complicated technology  and  the most advanced  tactics. When they
were with the  partisans they had a  reliable hiding place, protection while
they carried out their operation, and medical and other aid in case of need.
The partisans knew the  area  well  and  could  serve  as guides. It was  an
excellent  combination: the  local partisans  who  knew  every  tree  in the
forest, and the first-class technical  equipment for  the use  of explosives
demonstrated by real experts.
     The  `guards  minelayers' usually came on the scene for  a short while,
did their work swiftly and well and then returned whence they  had come. The
principal way of transporting them behind the enemy's lines was to drop them
by parachute. Their return was carried out by aircraft using secret partisan
airfields, or they made their way by foot across the enemy's front line.
     The high point  in  the  partisan  war against Germany consisted of two
operations  carried  out in 1943. By that  time,  as a result  of action  by
osnaz, order had been introduced into  the  partisan  movement; it  had been
`purged' and brought under  rigid central control. As a  result  of spetsnaz
work the partisan movement had been taught the latest methods of warfare and
the most advanced techniques of sabotage.
     The operation known as the `War of the Rails' was  carried out over six
weeks from August to September 1943.  It was a  very fortunate  time to have
chosen. It was at that moment when the  Soviet forces,  having exhausted the
German army in defensive battles at Kursk, themselves  suddenly went over to
the offensive. To support the advance a huge operation was undertaken in the
rear  of the  enemy  with  the  object  of  paralysing  his  supply  routes,
preventing  him from bringing up ammunition  and  fuel for the  troops,  and
making  it impossible for  him  to move  his reserves  around. The operation
involved the participation  of 167 partisan units with a  total  strength of
100,000  men.  All the units of spetsnaz were sent behind the enemy lines to
help  the partisans. More  than  150  tons  of  explosives,  more  than  150
kilometres of wire and  over  half  a million detonators were transported to
the partisan units by air. The spetsnaz units were  instructed to maintain a
strict  watch over the fulfilment of their  tasks.  Most  of  them  operated
independently in  the most  dangerous  and important  places,  and they also
appointed men from their units to instruct the partisan  units in the use of
explosives.
     Operation  `War  of  the Rails'  was  carried  out simultaneously in  a
territory with a front  more than 1000  kilometres wide and  more  than  500
kilometres in depth. On the first  night  of the operation 42,000 explosions
took  place on  the railway lines,  and the partisan activity increased with
every night that passed. The German  high command threw in tremendous forces
to  defend their lines of communication, so  that every night could be heard
not only the sound of bridges and railway lines being blown  up but also the
sounds of battle with the  German forces as  the partisans  fought their way
through to whatever they had to  destroy. Altogether,  in  the course of the
operation 215,000  rails, 836 complete trains, 184 rail and 556 road bridges
were  blown up. A  vast quantity of enemy equipment and  ammunition was also
destroyed.
     Having  won the enormous battle at Kursk, the Red Army sped towards the
river  Dnieper  and  crossed  it in  several  places. A  second  large-scale
operation  in support of the advancing troops was carried out in the enemy's
rear  under  the name  of  `Concert',  which was  in  concept  and  spirit a
continuation of the `War of the Rails'. In the final stage of that operation
all the spetsnaz units were taken off to new areas and  were enabled to rest
along with the partisan formations which had not taken part in it. Now their
time had come. Operation `Concert' began on 19 September 1943. That night in
Belorussia alone 19,903  rails were blown up. On the night  of 25  September
15,809 rails were  destroyed. All the spetsnaz  units and 193 partisan units
took part in the  operation `Concert'.  The total  number of participants in
the operation exceeded 120,000. In the course of the  whole operation, which
went  on  until  the  end of October, 148,557 rails  were destroyed, several
hundred trains  with  troops, weapons  and  ammunition  were  derailed,  and
hundreds of  bridges  were blown  up.  Despite a shortage of  explosives and
other material needed for such work, on the eve of the operation only eighty
tons of explosives could be sent to the partisan. Nevertheless `Concert' was
a tremendous success.
     After the  Red  Army  moved into  the territory of neighbouring  states
spetsnaz   went   through   a   radical   reorganisation.  The   independent
reconnaissance units,  the reconnaissance posts  which recruited  agents for
terrorist  actions, and  the  independent radio  battalions  for  conducting
disinformation, were all  retained in  their entirety.  There  are plenty of
references  in  the  Soviet   military   press  to  operations  by   special
intelligence units  in  the  final stages  of  the war. For example, in  the
course  of  an  operation in the Vistula-Oder  area special  groups from the
Intelligence directorate of  the headquarters of  the  1st  Ukrainian  Front
established the scope of the network of aerodromes and the exact position of
the  enemy's air bases, found the headquarters of the 4th Tank Army and  the
17th Army, the 48th Tank Corps and the 42nd Army Corps, and also gathered  a
great deal of other very necessary information.
     The  detachments  of  `guards  minelayers'  of spetsnaz  were reformed,
however, into  regular guards sapper detachments and were used in that  form
until  the  end  of  the war.  Only a  relatively small  number  of  `guards
minelayers'  were  kept  in  being  and  used  behind  the  enemy  lines  in
Czechoslovakia,  Bulgaria  and  Yugoslavia.  Such  a decision was absolutely
right  for the times. The maintargets for  spetsnaz operations had  been the
enemy's lines  of communication.  But that had been before the  Red Army had
started to advance at great speed. When  that happened,  there was no longer
any  need to blow up bridges. They needed to be captured and  preserved, not
destroyed.  For this  work  the Red  Army had  separate  shock  brigades  of
motorised  guards  engineering troops  which,  operating  jointly  with  the
forward  units,  would  capture  especially  important buildings  and  other
objects, clear them of  mines and  defend them until the main force arrived.
The guards formations of spetsnaz were used mainly  for strengthening  these
special engineering  brigades. Some  of the surviving  guards  battalions of
spetsnaz were  transferred to the  Far East where, in August 1945, they were
used against the Japanese Army.
     The use of spetsnaz in  the  Manchurian offensive of 1945 is of special
interest, because it provides the best  illustration of what was supposed to
happen to Germany if she had not attacked the USSR.
     Japan had a peace treaty with the  Soviet Union. But Japan had  gone to
war with other  states and had exhausted her  military,  economic and  other
resources. Japan  had  seized vast  territories  inhabited  by  hundreds  of
millions of people who wanted  to be liberated and were ready to welcome and
support any liberator who came along.  Japan was in exactly the situation in
which  Stalin had  wanted  to  see Germany:  exhausted  by  war  with  other
countries,  and  with  troops  scattered  over   expansive  territories  the
populations of which hated the sight of them.
     Thus,  in the interests naturally of peace and humanity Stalin struck a
sudden  crushing  blow at the armed forces of Japan in Manchuria  and China,
violating  the  treaty signed  four  years earlier. The operation took place
over vast areas. In terms of the distances covered and the speed at which it
moved, this operation has no equal in  world history. Soviet troops operated
over territories 5000 kilometres in width and 600-800  kilometres in  depth.
More  than  a  million and a half soldiers took part in  the operation, with
over  5000  tanks  and nearly  4000 aircraft.  It  really  was  a  lightning
operation, in the course  of  which  84,000  Japanese officers  and men were
killed and 593,000 taken prisoner. A tremendous quantity of arms, ammunition
and other equipment was seized.
     It may be objected that Japan was already on the brink  of catastrophe.
That is true. But therein lies Soviet strategy: to remain neutral until such
time as the enemy exhausts himself in  battle against someone else, and then
to strike a sudden blow. That  is precisely how the  war against Germany was
planned and that  was  why the partisan  units, the  barriers and  defensive
installations  were  all dispensed with, and why the ten airborne corps were
created in 1941.
     In  the Manchurian offensive the spetsnaz detachments put up their best
performance. Twenty airborne landings were made not by airborne troops,  but
by special reconnaissance troops. Spetsnaz units  of the  Pacific Fleet were
landed from submarines  and surface  boats. Some spetsnaz  units crossed the
frontier by foot, captured Japanese cars and used them for their operations.
Worried about the railway tunnels on a strip of  the  1st Far Eastern front,
the Soviet high command created special units for capturing the tunnels. The
groups crossed the frontier secretly, cut the throats of the guards, severed
the  wires connected to the explosive charges, and put the detonators out of
action. They then held the tunnels until their own forces arrived.
     In the course of the offensive a new  and very risky  type of operation
was  employed by spetsnaz. Senior GRU officers, with the rank of  colonel or
even major-general, were put in charge of small  groups. Such  a group would
suddenly land on an airfield close  to  an important Japanese  headquarters.
The appearance  of a Soviet colonel  or  general deep  in the Japanese  rear
never failed  to provoke  astonished reactions from  both  the Japanese high
command and the Japanese troops,  as  well as from the local population. The
transport planes carrying  these  were escorted by Soviet  fighter aircraft,
but  the fighters were  soon  obliged to return to their bases,  leaving the
Soviet transport undefended until it landed.  Even after it landed it had at
best only one high-ranking officer, the  crew and no more than a platoon  of
soldiers  to  guard  over  the plane.  The Soviet  officer would  demand and
usually obtain a meeting with a  Japanese general, at which  he would demand
the surrender  of the Japanese garrison. He and his group really had nothing
to back them up: Soviet troops were still hundreds of kilometres away and it
was still  weeks  to the  end  of  the war. But  the local Japanese military
leaders (and the Soviet  officers  too, for that  matter) naturally  did not
realise this. Perhaps the  Emperor had  decided  to  fight on  to  the  last
man....
     In several recorded instances, senior Japanese military leaders decided
independently  to surrender without  having permission  to do so from  their
superiors. The improvement in the morale  and  position of the Soviet troops
can be imagined.

        ___

     After the  end of  the Second  World War spetsnaz practically ceased to
exist for several years. Its reorganisation was eventually carried out under
the direction of several generals  who were fanatically  devoted to the idea
of spetsnaz. One of  them was Viktor Kondratevich Kharchenko, who  is  quite
rightly regarded  as the `father' of the  modern spetsnaz. Kharchenko was an
outstanding sportsman and  expert in the  theory and practice of the  use of
explosives. In 1938 he graduated from the military  electrotechnical academy
which, apart from training specialists in communications, at  that time also
produced experts in  the  business of applying  the  most complicated way of
blowing  up  buildings and other objectives. During the war he was chief  of
staff of the directorate  of special works  on the Western front.  From  May
1942 he  was chief of  staff on the independent guards spetsnaz brigade, and
from June he was deputy commander of that  brigade. In July 1944 his brigade
was reorganised into an independent guards motorised engineering brigade.
     Kharchenko was working in the General Staff after the war when he wrote
a letter to Stalin, the basic point of which was: `If before the outbreak of
war our sportsmen who made up the spetsnaz units spent some time in Germany,
Finland, Poland and other countries, they could be used  in wartime in enemy
territory  with  greater  likelihood of success.'  Many  specialists  in the
Soviet  Union  now believe that  Stalin  put an  end to  the Soviet  Union's
self-imposed isolation  in  sport partly  because of the effect Kharchenko's
letter had on him.
     In 1948 Kharchenko completed his  studies at the Academy of the General
Staff.  From  1951 he  headed  the  scientific  research  institute  of  the
engineering troops. Under  his  direction major  researches and  experiments
were carried out  in  an  effort  to  develop new  engineering equipment and
armaments, especially for small detachments  of saboteurs  operating  behind
the enemy's lines.
     In the immediate postwar years Kharchenko strove to demonstrate  at the
very  highest  level the  necessity  for reconstructing spetsnaz  on  a  new
technical level. He  had a  great many  opponents. So then he decided not to
argue any more. He selected a group of sportsmen from among  the students at
the  engineering academy, succeeded  in interesting them  in  his  idea, and
trained them  personally  for  carrying  out very  difficult  tasks.  During
manoeuvres held at the Totskyie camps, when on Marshal Zhukov's instructions
a real  nuclear explosion  was carried out,  and then  the behaviour of  the
troops in conditions extremely close to real warfare was studied, Kharchenko
decided to deploy his own group of men at his own risk.
     The discussions that took place after the  manoeuvres were,  the senior
officers  all agreed,  instructive  --  all  except  General  Kharchenko. He
pointed out that in circumstances of actual warfare nothing of what they had
been discussing  would have taken place because,  he said, a small group  of
trained people had been close to where the nuclear charges had  been  stored
and had had every opportunity to destroy the transport when the charges were
being moved from the store to the airfield. Moreover, he  said, the officers
who took the decision to use nuclear weapons could easily  have been  killed
before they took the decision. Kharchenko produced proof in support  of  his
statements.  When this produced no magic  results,  Kharchenko  repeated his
`act' at other major  manoeuvres until his persistence paid  off. Eventually
he obtained  permission to form a battalion  for operations  in  the enemy's
rear directed at his nuclear weapons and his command posts.
     The battalion operated very successfully, and that was the beginning of
the  resurrection of  spetsnaz. All the  contemporary formations of spetsnaz
have been created anew. That is why, unlike those  which existed during  the
war, they are not honoured with the title of `guards' units.7

     7  Kharchenko himself moved steadily up the promotion ladder. From 1961
he was deputy to  the  Chief of Engineering troops and from February 1965 he
was head of the same service. In 1972 he was promoted Marshal of engineering
troops. Having attained such heights, however, Kharchenko did not forget his
creation, and he was  a frequent  guest in the `Olympic  Village',  the main
spetsnaz training centre  near Kirovograd. When he was killed in 1975 during
the  testing  of  a new  weapon,  his citations used  the highest  peacetime
formula `killed in the course of carrying out his official duties', which is
very  seldom  met  with  in  reference to  this  senior  category of  Soviet
officers.

--------

      Chapter 4. The Fighting Units of Spetsnaz



     Spetsnaz is made up of three distinct elements: the fighting units, the
units  of professional  sportsmen  and  the network  of  secret  agents.  In
numerical  terms the fighting units of spetsnaz  are the  largest.  They are
composed of soldiers from the ranks, out of those who are especially strong,
especially tough and especially loyal.
     A factor that facilitates  the  selection process is  that  within  the
Soviet Army there exists a hidden system for the selection of soldiers. Long
before  they  put on  a  military  uniform,  the  millions  of  recruits are
carefully  screened  and  divided  into  categories in  acordance with their
political  reliability, their physical and mental development, the extent of
their political involvement, and the `cleanliness' (from the Communist point
of view) of  their personal and  family record.  The Soviet soldier does not
know to which  category he belongs, and in fact he knows  nothing  about the
existence  of the various categories. If  a soldier is included in  a higher
category  than  his comrades  that does not  necessarily  mean  that  he  is
fortunate. On  the contrary, the best thing for a  soldier is to be put into
the lowest category and to perform his two years of military service in some
remote  and  God-forsaken  pioneer  battalion  in  which  there  is  neither
discipline  nor  supervision, or  in  units of which the officers  have long
since  drunk  away all the authority they had. The  higher the category  the
soldier is put into the more difficult his military service will be.
     Soldiers of the  highest category make up the Kremlin guard, the troops
protecting the government communications, the frontier troops of the KGB and
spetsnaz. Being included in the highest category  does not  necessarily mean
being  posted  to the Kremlin,  to  a spetsnaz brigade  or to  a  government
communications  centre.  The  highest-category  men selected  by  the  local
military  authorities  simply represent the  best  human  material  which is
offered to the `customer' for  him  to  choose from. The  `customer' selects
only what suits his need. All those who do not appeal to  the customers move
down to  a  lower  level and  are offered  to  representatives of  the  next
echelon, that of the strategic missile troops, the airborne forces and crews
of nuclear submarines.
     The young soldier does not  realise, of course, what is going on. He is
simply  summoned to a  room where  people he doesn't  know ask him a lot  of
questions.  A few  days  later  he is  called to the room  again and finds a
different set of strangers there who also ask him questions.
     This system of sorting out recruits reminds one of the system of closed
shops for leading comrades. The  highest official has the first choice. Then
his deputy can go to  the shop and choose something from what remains.  Then
lower  ranking officials are allowed into the shop, then their deputies, and
so on. In this system spetsnaz rank as the very highest category.
     The soldiers who have been picked out by spetsnaz officers are gathered
together into groups and  are convoyed by officers and sergeants to fighting
units of  spetsnaz,  where  they are formed into  groups and  go  through an
intensive course of training lasting several weeks. At the end of the course
the  soldier fires shots from his Kalashnikov automatic  rifle for the first
time and is then made to take the  military oath.  The best out of the group
of young soldiers are  then sent to a spetsnaz training unit from which they
return six months later with the rank of sergeant, while the rest are posted
to fighting units.
     In spetsnaz, as throughout the Soviet  Army, they observe the `cult  of
the old soldier'.  All soldiers  are divided  into stariki  (`old men')  and
salagi (`small fry'). A real  salaga is  a soldier who has only just started
his service. A really `old man' (some twenty years' old) is one who is about
to complete  his service in a few months. A man who is neither a real starik
nor  a real salaga falls between the two,  a starik being compared to anyone
who has done less time than he has, and a salaga to anyone who has served in
the army a few months longer than he.
     Having  been  recruited  into spetsnaz, the  soldier  has  to  sign  an
undertaking not to disclose secret information. He has no right ever to tell
anyone where he  has served or what his service consisted of. At most he has
the right  to  say  he served  with  the airborne corps. Disclosure  of  the
secrets of  spetsnaz  is  treated  as  high  treason,  punishable  by  death
according to article 64 of the Soviet criminal code.
     Once he has completed his two years' service in spetsnaz a  soldier has
three choices. He can become an officer, in which case he is offered special
terms  for entering the higher school for officers of the airborne forces in
Ryazan. He can become a regular soldier  in spetsnaz, for which he has to go
through a number  of supplementary courses. Or he has the option to join the
reserve. If he chooses the last course  he  is regarded as being a member of
the spetsnaz reserve and is with it for the next five years. Then, up to the
age of 30, he is part of the airborne reserve. After  that he is  considered
to belong to the ordinary infantry reserve until he is fifty. Like any other
reserve force, the existence of a spetsnaz reserve makes  it  possible at  a
time  of mobilisation to multiply  the size of  the spetsnaz  fighting units
with reservists if necessary.

        ___

     Mud,  nothing but  mud all round, and it  was pouring with rain. It had
been raining throughout the summer, so that  everything was wet and  hanging
limp.  Everything  was  stuck  in  the  mud.  Every  soldier's boot  carried
kilograms of it.  But  their bodies were  covered in mud as  well, and their
hands and faces up to their ears and further. It was clear that the sergeant
had not  taken pity on the young spetsnaz recruits  that  day. They had been
called  up only a month before. They  had been  formed up into a provisional
group and been put through a  month's course for young soldiers  which every
one of them would remember all his life in his worst nightmare.
     That  morning  they  had been divided up  into companies  and platoons.
Before letting them back into their  mud-covered, sodden tent at  the end of
the day each sergeant  had time  to  show  his  platoon  the  extent of  his
authority.
     `Get inside!'
     There were  ten young men  crowding around the entrance to a huge tent,
as big as a prison barracks.
     `Get inside, damn you!' The sergeant urged them on.
     The first soldier thrust aside the  heavy wet tarpaulin which served as
a door and was about to enter when something stopped him. On the muddy, much
trampled ground  just inside the entrance a dazzlingly white towel had  been
laid  down in  place of a doormat. The soldier hesitated. But behind him the
sergeant was pushing and shouting: `Go on in, damn you!'
     The soldier was not inclined to step  on the towel. At the same time he
couldn't  make up his mind to jump over it, because  the  mud from his boots
would inevitably land  on  the towel. Eventually  he  jumped, and the others
jumped across the towel  after him. For some reason no one dared to take the
towel away. Everyone could see  that there was some reason  why it  had been
put there right  in the  entrance. A beautiful  clean  towel.  With mud  all
around it. What was it doing there?
     A whole platoon lived in one huge tent. The men slept in two-tier metal
bunks. The  top bunks  were occupied  by  the stariki   the  `old  men'  of
nineteen or even nineteen and a half, who had  already served a year or even
eighteen months in  spetsnaz. The salagi slept on the bottom bunks. They had
served only six months.  By comparison with those  who were now jumping over
the towel they were of course stariki  too. They had all in their day jumped
awkwardly across  the towel. Now they were watching silently,  patiently and
attentively to see how the new men behaved in that situation.
     The new  men  behaved as anybody would  in their situation. Some pushed
from behind, and there was the towel in front. So they jumped, and clustered
together  in the centre of the tent, not knowing where to put their hands or
where  to look. It  was strange. They seemed to want to  look at the ground.
All the young  men behaved  in exactly the same way: a jump,  into the crowd
and  eyes down. But  no  --  the last soldier  behaved quite differently. He
burst into the tent, helped by a kick from the sergeant. On seeing the white
towel he pulled  himself  up sharply,  stood  on it in  his dirty boots  and
proceeded to wipe  them as if he  really were standing  on a doormat. Having
wiped his feet he didn't join the crowd but marched to the far corner of the
tent where he had seen a spare bed.
     `Is this mine?'
     `It's  yours,'  the  platoon shouted  approvingly.  `Come  here,  mate,
there's a better place here! Do you want to eat?'
     That night all  the young recruits would get beaten. And they  would be
beaten on  the following  nights.  They would  be driven  out  into  the mud
barefoot, and they would be  made to sleep in the lavatories (standing up or
lying down, as you wish). They would be beaten with belts, with slippers and
with spoons, with anything suitable  for causing pain. The stariki would use
the salagi on which to ride  horseback in battles  with  their  friends. The
salagi would clean the `old men''s weapons and do their dirty jobs for them.
There would be the same goings-on as in the rest of the Soviet Army. Stariki
everywhere play the same kind of tricks on the recruits. The rituals and the
rules are the same  everywhere. The spetsnaz differs from the other branches
only in that they place  the dazzlingly clean  towel at  the entrance to the
tent for the recruits to walk over. The  sense of  this particular ritual is
clear  and simple: We  are nice people. We welcome you, young man, cordially
into  our friendly  collective. Our work  is  very hard, the hardest in  the
whole  army,  but we do  not let it  harden our hearts. Gome into our house,
young man, and  make yourself at home. We respect you and will spare nothing
for you. You see -- we have even  put the towel with which we wipe our faces
for  you  to  walk on in  your  dirty feet. So that's it, is it -- you don't
accept our welcome? You reject our  modest gift? You don't even wish to wipe
your boots on what we wipe our  faces with! What sort of people  do you take
us  for? You  may certainly not respect us, but why did  you come  into  our
house with dirty boots?
     Only one  of the salagi, the one who wiped his feet on the  towel, will
be  able to sleep  undisturbed. He will receive  his full ration of food and
will  clean  only  his  own  weapon;  and  perhaps  the  stariki  will  give
instructions  that he should not do even that. There are many others  in the
platoon to do it.
     Where  on  earth could  a  young eighteen-year-old soldier  have learnt
about  the  spetsnaz tradition?  Where could  he have  heard about the white
towel? Spetsnaz is a secret organisation  which treasures its traditions and
keeps them to itself. A former spetsnaz soldier must never tell tales: he'll
lose his tongue if he does. In  any case he is unlikely to tell anyone about
the towel  trick, especially  someone who  has yet to be  called  up.  I was
beaten up, so let him be beaten up as well, he reasons.
     There are only three  possible ways the young soldier  could have found
out about  the towel. Either he simply guessed  what  was happening himself.
The towel had been laid down at the entrance, so it must be to wipe his feet
on. What else could it be for? Or perhaps his elder brother had been through
the spetsnaz. He had, of course, never  called  it by that name or said what
it was  for,  but he might  have said about  the towel: `Watch out, brother,
there are  some units that have very strange customs....  But just take care
-- if you let on I'll knock your head off. And  I can.' Or his elder brother
might  have spent some  time in a  penal battalion. Perhaps he  had been  in
spetsnaz and in  a penal battalion. For the custom of  laying out a towel in
the  entrance before the arrival of recruits did  not  originate in spetsnaz
but in the penal  battalions.  It is  possible that it was handed on to  the
present-day penal battalions from the prisons of the past.
     The  links between spetsnaz and the penal battalions are invisible, but
they are many and very strong.
     In the first place, service in spetsnaz is the toughest form of service
in the  Soviet  Army. The  physical  and psychological demands  are not only
increased  deliberately to the very highest point that a man  can bear; they
are  frequently, and also deliberately, taken beyond any permissible limits.
It is quite understandable  that a spetsnaz  soldier should find  he  cannot
withstand these extreme demands and breaks down. The breakdown may take many
different forms: suicide, severe depression, hysteria, madness or desertion.
As I was leaving an intelligence unit of a military district on promotion to
Moscow  I  suddenly  came  across,  on a little railway station, a  spetsnaz
officer I knew being escorted by two armed soldiers.
     `What on earth are you  doing here?' I exclaimed. `You don't see people
on this station more than once in a month!'
     `One of my men ran away!'
     `A new recruit?'
     `That's the trouble, he's a starik. Only another month to go.'
     `Did he take his weapon?'
     `No, he went without it.'
     I expressed my surprise, wished the lieutenant luck and went on my way.
How the search ended I do not know. At the very next station soldiers of the
Interior  Ministry's troops were searching the carriages. The alarm had gone
out all over the district.
     Men run away from spetsnaz more  often than  from other branches of the
services. But it is usually a  case of a new recruit who  has been stretched
to  the limit and  who usually takes a rifle with  him. A man like that will
kill anyone who gets  in his  path. But he is usually  quickly  run down and
killed. But  in this  case it was  a starik  who had run off,  and without a
rifle.  Where had  he  gone, and  why? I didn't  know. Did they find him?  I
didn't know that either. Of course they found him. They are good at that. If
he wasn't carrying a rifle he would not have been  killed. They  don't  kill
people  without reason. So  what  could  he  expect? Two  years  in a  penal
battalion and then the month in spetsnaz that he had not completed.
     Spetsnaz has no distinguishing badge or insignia --  officially, at any
rate.  But unofficially the spetsnaz  badge is a  wolf, or  rather a pack of
wolves. The wolf is a strong, proud animal which is remarkable for its quite
incredible  powers of endurance. A wolf can run for hours  through deep snow
at  great  speed,  and  then,  when  he  scents  his  prey, put  on  another
astonishing  burst of speed.  Sometimes  he  will chase  his prey  for days,
reducing it to a state  of exhaustion.  Exploiting their great capacity  for
endurance,  wolves first exhaust  and then  attack  animals  noted for their
tremendous strength,  such as  the elk.  People  say rightly  that the `wolf
lives on its legs'.  Wolves will bring down a huge elk,  not so much  by the
strength of their teeth as by the strength of their legs.
     The  wolf also has a  powerful intellect. He is proud and  independent.
You can tame  and domesticate a  squirrel, a fox  or  even a great  elk with
bloodshot eyes. And there are many animals that can be trained to perform. A
performing bear  can do really miraculous things. But you cannot tame a wolf
or train it to  perform.  The wolf lives in a pack, a closely knit and  well
organised fighting unit of  frightful predators. The tactics  of a wolf pack
are the very embodiment  of flexibility and  daring. The wolves' tactics are
an  enormous  collection of  various  tricks and  combinations, a mixture of
cunning and strength, confusing manoeuvres and sudden attacks.
     No other animal in  the world  could better  serve as  a symbol  of the
spetsnaz. And there is good reason why  the training of  a spetsnaz  soldier
starts with  the training of  his legs. A man is  as strong and young as his
legs  are strong and young. If a man  has a  sloppy way of walking and if he
drags his feet along the ground, that means he himself is weak. On the other
hand, a dancing, springy  gait is  a sure sign of physical and metal health.
Spetsnaz soldiers  are  often dressed up in the uniform of other branches of
the services  and stationed in  the same military camps  as other especially
secret units, usually with communications  troops. But  one doesn't need any
special experience to pick out the spetsnaz man from the crowd. You can tell
him by the way he walks.  I shall  never forget one soldier who was known as
`The Spring'. He was not very  tall, slightly stooping and round-shouldered.
But his feet were never still. He kept dancing about the whole time. He gave
the impression of being restrained only by some invisible string, and if the
string were cut the soldier would  go on  jumping, running and  dancing  and
never stop. The  military commissariat  whose job it was to select the young
soldiers and sort  them out paid no attention to him and he fetched up in an
army missile brigade. He had served almost a year there when the brigade had
to take part  in  manoeuvres in  which  a spetsnaz company was used  against
them.  When the exercise  was over the spetsnaz company was fed there in the
forest  next to the  missile  troops. The  officer  commanding the  spetsnaz
company noticed  the soldier  in the missile unit who kept dancing about all
the time he was standing in the queue for his soup.
     `Come over  here, soldier.' The officer drew a line on the ground. `Now
jump.'
     The soldier stood on  the  line  and  jumped  from there,  without  any
run-up. The company commander  did not have anything with him to measure the
length of the jump, but  there  was no need. The officer was experienced  in
such things and knew what was good and what was excellent.
     `Get into my car!'
     `I cannot, comrade major, without my officer's permission.'
     `Get  in and don't worry, you'll be  all right with me. I will speak up
for you and tell the right people where you have been.'
     The company commander made the  soldier get  into his car  and  an hour
later presented him to the chief of army intelligence, saying:
     `Comrade colonel, look what I've found among the missile troops.'
     `Now then, young man, let's see you jump.'
     The  soldier jumped from  the spot. This time there was a  tape measure
handy and it showed he had jumped 241 centimetres.
     `Take the  soldier into your lot and  find him the right  sort of cap,'
the colonel said.
     The commander  of the spetsnaz company took off his  own blue beret and
gave it to the soldier. The  chief of  intelligence  immediately  phoned the
chief of staff of the  army, who  gave the appropriate order to the  missile
brigade -- forget you ever had such a man.
     The  dancing soldier was given the nickname `The Spring' on  account of
his flexibility. He had never previously taken a  serious interest in sport,
but  he was a born athlete.  Under the direction of experienced trainers his
talents  were  revealed  and he  immediately performed  brilliantly. A  year
later,  when he  completed  his military service, he was already clearing  2
metres 90  centimetres.  He  was invited  to join  the professional athletic
service of spetsnaz, and he agreed.
     The  long jump  with no run has been undeservedly  forgotten and is  no
longer  included in the  programme  of  official competitions. When  it  was
included  in the Olympic Games the  record  set  in  1908,  was 3 metres  33
centimetres. As an  athletic skill  the long jump  without a run is the most
reliable indication of the strength of a person's legs. And  the strength of
his  legs  is  a  reliable  indicator  of the whole physical  condition of a
soldier. Practically half a  person's muscles are to be  found  in his legs.
Spetsnaz devotes colossal attention to developing the legs of its men, using
many simple  but very  effective  exercises: running upstairs, jumping  with
ankles tied together up a few steps and down again, running  up steep  sandy
slopes, jumping  down  from  a great height,  leaping from moving  cars  and
trains, knee-bending with a barbell on the shoulders, and of course the jump
from a spot. At the end of the 1970s the spetsnaz  record in  this exercise,
which has  not  been recognised  by the official sports  authorities, was  3
metres 51 centimetres.
     A spetsnaz soldier knows that he is invincible. This may be a matter of
opinion, but other people's  opinions  do not interest the soldier. He knows
himself  that  he  is invincible  and  that's enough for  him. The  idea  is
instilled  into  him  carefully,  delicately,   not  too  insistently,   but
continually  and  effectively.  The  process  of  psychological training  is
inseparably linked to  the physical toughening. The development of  a spirit
of self-confidence and  of independence and of a feeling of superiority over
any opponent is carried  out  at  the same time  as  the development  of the
heart, the muscles and the lungs.  The most important element  in training a
spetsnaz soldier is to make him believe in his own strength.
     A man's potential is unlimited, the reasoning goes. A man can reach any
heights  in life in  any sphere  of activity.  But  in  order  to defeat his
opponents a man must  first overcome himself, combat his own fears, his lack
of confidence and laziness. The path upwards is one of continual battle with
oneself. A man  must force himself to rise sooner  than the others and go to
bed later. He must exclude from  his life everything that  prevents him from
achieving his objective. He must subordinate the  whole of  his existence to
the strictest  regime. He must give up taking days off. He must use his time
to  the best possible  advantage  and  fit  in  even more  than was  thought
possible. A man aiming for a  particular target can succeed only if  he uses
every minute of his life to the maximum advantage for carrying out his plan.
A man should  find four hours' sleep quite  sufficient,  and the rest of his
time can be used for concentrating on the achievement of his objective.
     I imagine  that to instil this psychology into  a mass army  formed  by
means   of  compulsory  mobilisation  would  be   impossible  and   probably
unnecessary. But  in separate units carefully  composed  of  the  best human
material such a philosophy is entirely acceptable.
     In numbers spetsnaz amounts to less than one per cent of all the Soviet
armed forces in peacetime. Spetsnaz is the best, carefully selected  part of
the  armed forces, and the  philosophy of each man's unlimited potential has
been adopted in its entirety by  every member of  the organisation.  It is a
philosophy which  cannot be put into words. The soldier grasps  it  not with
his  head, but with his feet, his shoulders and  his sweat. He soon  becomes
convinced  that the path  to  victory and self-perfection is  a  battle with
himself, with his own  mental and  physical  weakness. Training of any  kind
makes sense only if it brings a  man to the  very brink of his physical  and
mental  powers.  To  begin with, he must  know  precisely the limits of  his
capabilities. For example: he can do 40  press-ups. He must know this figure
precisely and that it really is the limit  of his capacity. No matter how he
strains he can do no more. But  every training session is a cruel battle  to
beat his  previous record.  As he starts a training session a soldier has to
promise  himself  that he will  beat his  own  record  today  or die in  the
attempt.
     The  only  people who  become  champions  are  those who  go into  each
training session as if they are going to their death or to their last battle
in which they will either win or die. The victor is the one for whom victory
is more important than  life. The victor is the one who  dives  a centimetre
deeper than his  maximum depth, knowing that his lungs will not hold out and
that death lies  beyond his  limit.  And  once  he  has overcome the fear of
death, the next  time  he will dive even deeper! Spetsnaz  senior lieutenant
Vladimir Salnikov, world champion and Olympic champion swimmer,  repeats the
slogan every day: conquer yourself, and that was why he defeated everyone at
the Olympic Games.
     An excellent  place  to  get  to  know and to overcome oneself  is  the
`Devil's Ditch' which has been  dug  at the spetsnaz central training centre
near Kirovograd. It is a ditch with metal spikes  stuck into the bottom. The
narrowest width is three metres. From there it gets wider and wider.
     Nobody  is forced  to jump the ditch.  But  if  someone wants  to  test
himself,  to conquer  himself and to  overcome his own cowardice, let him go
and jump. It can be a standing jump or  a running jump, in running shoes and
a track suit, with heavy boots and a big rucksack on your back,  or carrying
a  weapon. It  is up to  you.  You start  jumping at  the  narrow  part  and
gradually move  outwards. If  you make a mistake, trip on something or don't
reach the other side you land with your side on the spikes.
     There are not many who wanted to risk their guts  at the Devil's Ditch,
until a strict  warning was put  up:  `Only for real spetsnaz fighters!' Now
nobody has to be invited to try it. There are always  plenty of people there
and always somebody jumping, summer and winter, on slippery mud and snow, in
gas-masks and  without them, carrying an ammunition box, hand-in-hand,  with
hands tied  together, and even with  someone on the  back. The man who jumps
the  Devil's Ditch has confidence in himself,  considers himself invincible,
and has grounds for doing so.
     The relations within  spetsnaz units are very similar to  those  within
the wolf  pack. We  do  not know everything about the habits and the ways of
wolves. But I have heard Soviet zoologists talk about the life and behaviour
of wolves and, listening to them, I have been reminded of spetsnaz. They say
the wolf has not  only a very developed brain but is also the noblest of all
the living things inhabiting  our planet. The mental capacity of the wolf is
reckoned to  be far greater than  the dog's. What I have heard from  experts
who have spent  their whole lives in the taiga  of the Ussuri, coming across
wolves every day, is sharply  at  odds with  what people say about them  who
have seen them only in zoos.
     The experts say that the she-wolf never kills her sickly wolf-cubs. She
makes  her other  cubs do it.  The she-wolf herself gives the cubs the first
lesson in hunting in  a group. And  the  cubs'  first victim is their weaker
brother. But once the weaker ones are disposed of, the she-wolf protects the
rest. In case of  danger she would rather sacrifice herself than  let anyone
harm  them.  By destroying the weaker cubs the she-wolf preserves the purity
and strength of her offspring, permitting only the strong to  live.  This is
very close to the process  of selection within spetsnaz. At the  outset  the
weaker soldier is  naturally  not killed  but thrown  out of spetsnaz into a
more restful service. When a unit is carrying out a serious operation behind
enemy  lines, however, the  wolf-cubs of  spetsnaz will  kill  their comrade
without a second thought if he appears to weaken. The killing of the weak is
not the result of a  court decision but of lynch law. It may appear to be an
act of barbarism, but  it is only by doing so that  the wolves have retained
their  strength  for millions of years and  remained  masters of the forests
until such a time  as  an even more frightful predator -- man  -- started to
destroy them on a massive scale.
     But the  she-wolf has  also another reputation, and it  is  no accident
that the Romans for centuries had a she-wolf as the symbol  of their empire.
A strong, wise, cruel and at  the same time caring and affectionate she-wolf
reared two human cubs: could  there be  a more striking symbol  of  love and
strength?
     Within their pack the wolves  conduct a running battle to gain a higher
place in the hierarchy. And I never saw anything  inside spetsnaz that could
be described as soldier's friendship, at least nothing like what I  had seen
among the tank troops and the infantry. Within spetsnaz a bitter battle goes
on for a  place in the  pack, closer to the leader and even in the  leader's
place. In the  course of  this bitter  battle  for  a place in the pack  the
spetsnaz  soldier  is sometimes  capable  of  displaying  such  strength  of
character as I have never seen elsewhere.
     The  beating  up of the  young recruits  who are  just  starting  their
service is an effort on the part of the stariki to preserve their dominating
position in  the section,  platoon  or company. But  among the recruits  too
there is right from  the  beginning  a no  less bitter battle going  on  for
priority. This struggle takes the form  of continual fighting between groups
and individuals. Even among the  stariki  not everyone  is not  on  the same
level: they  also have their various levels of  seniority. The  more  senior
levels strive  to keep the inferior ones  under their  control. The inferior
ones try  to extract  themselves  from that control.  It  is very difficult,
because if a young soldier  tries  to oppose someone who  has served  half a
year more than he has, the longer-serving man  will be supported not only by
the whole of his  class but also by the other senior classes: the  salaga is
not only  offending a soldier senior to himself (never mind who  he  is  and
what the  older  ones  think  of  him)  but is  also undermining  the  whole
tradition established  over  the decades in  spetsnaz  and the  rest of  the
Soviet  Army. In  spite of  all this, attempts at protest  by  the  inferior
classes occur regularly and are sometimes successful.
     I recall a soldier of  enormous physique and  brutal  features known as
`The  Demon' who,  after serving for half a  year, got  together a group  of
soldiers  from all the  classes and lorded it over  not just his own platoon
but the whole company. He  was good at sensing the mood of a company. He and
his group  never attacked stariki  in normal  circumstances. They would wait
patiently until one of the stariki did something which by spetsnaz standards
is considered a disgrace, like stealing. Only then would they set about him,
usually  at night. The  Demon was  skilful at making use of provocation. For
example, having stolen a bottle of aftershave from a soldier, he  would slip
it to one of his enemies. There is no theft in spetsnaz. The thief is, then,
always discovered very quickly and punished mercilessly. And  The Demon was,
of course, in charge of the punitive action.
     But seniority in  spetsnaz units is  not determined only  by  means  of
fists. In The Demon's group there was a soldier known as `The Squint', a man
of medium height  and build. I do not know how it came  about,  but it  soon
became  apparent that,  although  The Demon was lording  it  over  the whole
company, he never opposed The Squint. One day The Squint made  fun of him in
public, drawing attention to his ugly nostrils. There was some mild laughter
in the company and The Demon was clearly humiliated, but for some reason  he
did not choose to  exercise his strength.  The Squint soon came  to dominate
the whole company, but it never occurred to him  to fight anyone or to order
anybody about. He  simply told The  Demon out loud  what  he wanted, and The
Demon used his strength  to  influence the  whole  company. This went on for
about three months. How  the system worked and why, was not for  us officers
to  know.  We  watched  what  was  going  on  from  the  sidelines,  neither
interfering nor trying to look too closely into it.
     But  then there  was a  revolution. Someone caught The  Demon out in  a
provocation.  The Demon  again stole something and slipped it to one of  his
stariki, and he was found out. The Demon and  The Squint  and their  closest
friends  were beaten  all night until the duty officer intervened. The Demon
and The Squint were locked up temporarily in a store where they kept barrels
of petrol. They kept them there for several days because the likelihood of a
bloody settling of accounts was considerable. Meanwhile the whole affair was
reported  to the chief  of Intelligence  for the district. Knowing  the  way
things were done in spetsnaz, he decided that  both men should be tried by a
military tribunal. The  result  was  a  foregone  conclusion. As  usual  the
tribunal did not hear  the true causes of the affair. The officer commanding
the company simply  put together  a number of minor offences: being late  on
parade,  late for  inspection, found in a drunken state, and  so  forth. The
whole company  confirmed everything in their evidence, and the accused  made
no attempt to deny the charges.  Yet there  was some rough  justice  in  the
process, because they probably  both  deserved  their sentences of  eighteen
months in a penal battalion.

        ___

     The silent  majority  can put up  with  anything  for a long  time. But
sometimes  a  spark lands  in the  powder  keg  and  there  is  a  frightful
explosion.  Often in spetsnaz a  group  of  especially  strong and  bullying
soldiers will  dominate the scene  for  a  certain  time,  until  suddenly a
terrible  counter  blow  is struck, whereupon  the group is broken  up  into
pieces and  its members, scorned and  disliked, have to give  way to another
group.
     In every company there  are a few soldiers  who  do not try to dominate
the rest, who do not voice their  opinions  and who do  not try  to  achieve
great influence. At  the same time everyone is aware of some enormous hidden
strength in them, and no  one  dares  to touch them. This kind of soldier is
usually  found somewhere near the top  of the platoon's hierarchy, rarely at
the very top.
     I  remember a soldier known as `The Machine'. He always kept himself to
himself.  He  probably  experienced  no  great  emotions,  and  by  spetsnaz
standards  he was  probably too kind and  placid  a person. He  did  his job
properly and seemed  never to experience in  his  work either enthusiasm  or
resentment. Nobody,  not even The  Demon, dared touch  The  Machine. On  one
occasion,  when The  Demon was beating  up one  of  the young soldiers,  The
Machine  went up to him and said, `That's enough of that.' The Demon did not
argue, but stopped what he was doing and moved away. The Machine reverted to
silence.
     It was  clear  to  everyone that The Machine's dislike of The Demon had
not been  given its full expression. And so  it was. On  the night  when the
whole company beat up  The  Demon and The Squint, The Machine lay on his bed
and took no part in the beating.  Finally his  patience gave out, he went to
the toilet where the  sentence was being carried out, pushed the crowd aside
with his enormous hands and said, `Let me give him a punch.'
     He gave  The Demon a blow in the stomach with his mighty fist. Everyone
thought he had killed the man, who  bent double and collapsed in a heap like
a wooden puppet  with string instead  of joints. They poured  water over him
and  for half an hour afterwards  did  not strike him.  They  were afraid of
finishing  it off, afraid they would be tried for murder. Then they saw that
The Demon had survived and they continued to beat  him. Quite aloof from the
squabble for top position in the company, The Machine had gone straight back
to bed.
     In the  same company  there was  a soldier known  as `The Otter'; slim,
well  built, handsome.  He  was  not very  big  and appeared to have  little
strength. But he was like  a sprung steel  plate. His  strength seemed to be
explosive.  He  had amazing reactions.  When, as a recruit, he  first jumped
over  the towel,  he was  subjected to the usual  treatment  by the stariki.
`Drop your pants and  lie  down,'  they said. He  took hold  of  his belt as
though he was ready to carry out their orders. They dropped their guard, and
at that moment  The Otter  struck  one of them in the mouth with such a blow
that his victim fell to  the ground and was knocked  senseless. While he was
falling The Otter struck another one in the teeth. A third backed out of the
way.
     That  night, when  he was asleep, they bound him in a blanket  and beat
him up  brutally. They beat him the  second night, and the  third, and again
and again. But he was a very unusual person even  by spetsnaz  standards. He
possessed rather  unusual muscles. When they were  relaxed  they looked like
wet rags.  He suffered a lot of  beatings, but one  had the  impression that
when he was relaxed he  felt no pain. Perhaps  there  were qualities in  his
character that  put him  above the standards we were used to. When The Otter
slept he  was then in the power of  the stariki and they did not spare  him.
They attacked  him  in  the  dark,  so  that  he  should  not recognise  his
attackers. But  he knew all of them instinctively. He never  quarrelled with
them and he  always avoided  groups of  them.  If they  attacked him  in the
daylight he  made no great effort to resist. But if he came across a stariki
on his own he would punch him  in the  teeth. If he came across him again he
would do  the same  again. He could knock a man's teeth out. He would strike
suddenly  and like lightning. He would be standing relaxed, his arms hanging
down,  looking at the  ground. Then suddenly  there would  be  a  frightful,
shattering blow. On several occasions he  punched stariki in the presence of
the whole company and sometimes even with  officers present. How beautifully
he punched them! If  there were officers present the company commander would
admire The Otter and indicate his approval  with a smile on his face -- then
sentence him to three days in the guard room, because they were  not allowed
to hit each other.
     This went on  for a long time, until the stariki became tired of it all
and left him  alone.  Nobody  touched him any  more. Six  months later  they
offered him a place at the very  top. He refused, still keeping his silence.
He never got involved in the affairs of the platoon and had no desire and no
claim to be  a leader. When  the whole company was beating up  The Demon The
Otter  did  not join in. Some years later I  met a  spetsnaz  man I knew and
learnt  that The  Machine  had  been  offered a  job with  the  professional
athletic service.  He  had refused and had gone back to some remote Siberian
village where his home was. But The Otter  had accepted the offer and is now
serving in  one of the best spetsnaz  formations,  training for the ultimate
job of assassinating key political and military figures on the enemy's side.

        ___

     There are  other  ways  in  which  a spetsnaz  soldier can  defend  his
position in the hierarchy,  apart from punching people in the face. Spetsnaz
respects people who take risks, who have strength and display courage. A man
who will jump  further than others on  a motorcycle,  or  one who  will wait
longer than others to open his  parachute, or  one who hammers nails  into a
plank with the palm of his hand -- such people are assured of respect. A man
who  goes  on  running  in  spite  of tiredness  when  all  the  others  are
collapsing,  who can go longer  than others without food  and drink, who can
shoot better than the  others -- such  people are  also well thought of. But
when  everybody  is thought highly of,  there is  still a struggle among the
best. And if there is no other way for  a man to show that he is better than
another, physical violence will break out.
     Two soldiers in leading positions may fight each other secretly without
anyone else being present: they go off into  the forest and fight it  out. A
conflict  may begin with a sudden, treacherous attack by one man on another.
There  are also  open, legal encounters.  Sport  is particularly admired  by
spetsnaz.  The whole  company is brought together, and they fight each other
without rules, using all the tricks that spetsnaz has taught them -- boxing,
sambo, karate. Some fights go on  until the first  blood is drawn. Others go
on until one person is humiliated and admits he is defeated.
     Among  the various ways of finding leaders  a very effective one is the
fight with whips. It is an old gypsy way of establishing a relationship. The
leather-plaited whip several metres long is a weapon only rarely met with in
spetsnaz. But  if a soldier (usually a Kalmik, a Mongolian or a gypsy) shows
that he can handle the weapon  with real skill he is allowed to carry a whip
with him as a weapon. When two experts with the whip meet up and each claims
to be the better one, the argument is resolved in a frightful contest.

        ___

     When we speak  about  the  customs  observed within spetsnaz we must of
course take into account the simple fact that spetsnaz has its own standards
and its own understanding of the words `bad' and `good'. Let us not  be  too
strict in our judgement of the spetsnaz soldiers for their cruel ways, their
bloodthirstiness and their lack of humanity. Spetsnaz is a closed society of
people living permanently at the extreme limits of human existence. They are
people  who even in peacetime are risking their lives. Their existence bears
no relation at all to  the way the majority of the inhabitants of our planet
live. In spetsnaz a man  can be admired for  qualities of which  the average
man may have no idea.
     The typical spetsnaz soldier is a sceptic, a cynic and a pessimist.  He
believes profoundly in the depravity of human nature and knows (from his own
experience)  that  in extreme  conditions a man becomes a beast.  There  are
situations where a man will save the lives of others at the  expense  of his
own life. But in the  opinion  of the  spetsnaz men this  happens only in  a
sudden emergency: for  example, a man may  throw himself in front of a train
to  push  another  man aside and  save  his  life.  But  when  an  emergency
situation, such  as a  terrible famine, lasts for months  or even years, the
spetsnaz view is that it is every man for himself. If a man helps another in
need  it means that the need is not extreme. If  a man shares his bread with
another in time of famine it means the famine is not extreme.
     In the spetsnaz soldier's opinion the most dangerous thing he can do is
put faith in his comrade, who may at the most critical moment turn out to be
a  beast.  It is  much simpler for him not to trust  his comrade (or anybody
else), so that in a critical situation there will be no shattered illusions.
Better that he regards all his fellow human beings as beasts from the outset
than to make that discovery in an utterly hopeless situation.
     The soldier's  credo can be stated  in  a  triple formula: Don't trust,
don't  beg, don't fear. It is a formula which did not originate in spetsnaz,
but in prisons  many centuries ago. In it  can be  seen the whole outlook of
the spetsnaz soldier:  his practically superhuman  contempt for death, and a
similar contempt for  everybody around him. He does not  believe in justice,
goodness or  humanity.  He does not  even believe in force until it has been
demonstrated by means of a fist, a whip  or the teeth  of a dog. When it  is
demonstrated his natural reflex is to challenge it immediately.
     Sometimes  in  the  life  of  a  spetsnaz  soldier  he has  a  sort  of
revelation, a sense of  complete freedom and happiness. In this mental state
he fears nobody at all, trusts no one at all, and would not ask anybody  for
anything,  even  for  mercy.  This state  comes about in  a  combination  of
circumstances  in  which  a  soldier  would  go  voluntarily  to  his death,
completely contemptuous of  it.  At that moment the soldier's mind  triumphs
completely over cowardice, the vileness and meanness around him. Once he has
experienced this sensation of liberation,  the soldier is capable of any act
of heroism, even  sacrificing his  life to  save a comrade. But  his act has
nothing in common with ordinary soldiers' friendship. The motive behind such
an  act is  to  show, at the cost of his own  life, his superiority over all
around him, including the comrade he saves.
     In  order for such a moment of revelation to come on some occasion, the
soldier goes through a long and careful training.  All the beatings, all the
insults and  humiliations that he  has suffered, are steps on the path  to a
brilliant suicidal  feat  of heroism. The well-fed, self-satisfied, egoistic
soldier will never perform any  acts of heroism.  Only someone who has  been
driven barefoot into the mud and snow, who has had even his bread taken away
from him and has proved every day with his fists his  right  to existence --
only this kind of man is capable of showing one day  that  he really is  the
best.

--------

      Chapter 5. The `Other People'



     Although  the  vast  majority  of  spetsnaz  is  made  up  of  Slavonic
personnel, there are some exceptions.

     At first glance you would say he is a gypsy. Tall, well-built, athletic
in his  movements, handsome,  with  a hooked  nose  and flashing  eyes.  The
captain plays  the  guitar so well that passers-by stop and  do  not go away
until  he stops  playing. He dances  as very  few know  how.  His  officer's
uniform fits him as if it were on a dummy in the window of the main military
clothing shop on the Arbat.
     The officer  has had a typical career. He was  born in 1952 in Ivanovo,
where he  went  to school.  Then he  attended the higher school for airborne
troops  in  Ryazan, and  he  wears  the uniform  of the airborne  forces. He
commands a company  in the Siberian  military district. All very typical and
familiar. At first glance. But he is Captain  Roberto Rueda-Maestro -- not a
very usual name for a Soviet officer.
     There is  a mistake: the captain is not a gypsy.  And if we  study  him
more carefully we notice some other peculiarities. He is wearing the uniform
of the airborne troops. But there are  no airborne troops  in  the  Siberian
military district where  he  is stationed.  Even  stranger is  the fact that
after finishing school Roberto spent some time in Spain  as a  tourist. That
was in 1969. Can we imagine a tourist from  the Soviet Union  being in Spain
under  Franco's  rule,  at  a  time  when  the  Soviet Union  maintained  no
diplomatic relations with Spain? Roberto Rueda-Maestro was  in Spain at that
time  and has some  idea  of  the country. But the strangest aspect of  this
story is that, after spending  some time in a capitalist country,  the young
man was  able to enter a Soviet military school. And not any school, but the
Ryazan higher school for airborne troops.
     These facts are clues. The full set of clues gives us the right answer,
without fear of contradiction. The captain is a spetsnaz officer.

        ___

     During the Civil  War  in  Spain  thousands of  Spanish  children  were
evacuated to the Soviet Union. The exact number of children evacuated is not
known.  The figures given about this are very contradictory.  But there were
enough of them for several full-length films to be  made  and  for books and
articles to be written about them in the Soviet Union.
     As young  men they soon  became  cadets at  Soviet military  schools. A
well-known example is Ruben Ruis Ibarruri, son of Dolores Ibarruri,  general
secretary  of the  Communist Party of Spain. Even at this time the Spaniards
were  put into the  airborne  troops. Ruben  Ibarruri,  for  example,  found
himself in the 8th airborne corps. It is true that in a war of defence those
formations intended for aggressive  advancing operations  were  found to  be
unnecessary, and  they were reorganised into guard rifle divisions and  used
in  defensive  battles at Stalingrad. Lieutenant  Ibarruri was  killed while
serving in the  35th guard rifle division which had  been formed  out of the
8th  airborne corps.  It was a typical fate for young men at that  time. But
then  they were  evacuated  to  the  Urals and Siberia,  where  the  Spanish
Communist Party (under Stalin's control) organised special schools for them.
From  then on references  to  Spanish children appeared very  rarely  in the
Soviet press.

        ___

     One of  the special schools was situated in the town of Ivanovo and was
known as the E.  D.  Stasova  International  School. Some graduates of  this
school later  turned  up in Fidel Castro's personal  bodyguard, some  became
leading figures in the Cuban intelligence  service -- the most aggressive in
the world, exceeding  its teachers  in the GRU and KGB in  both  cruelty and
cunning.  Some of the school's graduates were  used as `illegals' by the GRU
and KGB.
     It has to be said, however, that  the  majority of the first generation
of  Spanish  children remained  in the Soviet Union with  no  possibility of
leaving it. But  then  in the  1950s and  1960s  a  new generation of Soviet
Spaniards was born, differing  from the first generation in that it  had  no
parents in the  USSR.  This is very  important if  a young man is being sent
abroad on a risky mission, for the Communists then have the man's parents as
hostages.
     The second generation of Spaniards  is used by the Soviet Government in
many ways for operations abroad. One very effective  device is  to send some
young Soviet  Spaniards to Cuba, give them time to  get  used to the country
and acclimatise themselves, and then send them to Africa and Central America
as  Cubans to fight against `American Imperialism'.  The  majority  of Cuban
troops  serving abroad  are certainly  Cubans.  But  among them is a certain
percentage  of  men who were born in the Soviet  Union and who  have Russian
wives and children and a military rank in the armed forces of the USSR.
     For some reason Captain Roberto  Rueda-Maestro is serving in the  Urals
military district. I  must emphasise  that we  are  still talking  about the
usual  spetsnaz units, and we haven't started to discuss `agents'. An  agent
is a  citizen  of a foreign  country recruited into  the Soviet intelligence
service. Roberto is a  citizen of the Soviet Union. He does not have and has
never had  in  his life  any other  citizenship. He has a  Russian  wife and
children born on the territory of the  USSR, as he  was himself. That is why
the captain is  serving  in  a normal  spetsnaz unit,  as an ordinary Soviet
officer.
     Spetsnaz seeks out and finds -- it is easy to do in the Soviet Union --
people born in the Soviet Union but of obviously foreign origin. With a name
like Ruedo-Maestro it  is very  difficult to make a career in any branch  of
the  Soviet armed forces. The only exception is spetsnaz, where such  a name
is no obstacle but a passport to promotion.

        ___

     In spetsnaz I have met people with German names such as Stolz, Schwarz,
Weiss and so forth. The story of these Soviet Germans is also connected with
the war. According  to  1979 figures  there were 1,846,000 Germans living in
the Soviet Union. But most of those Germans came to Russia two hundred years
ago and are of no use to spetsnaz. Different Germans are required,  and they
also exist in the Soviet Union.
     During the war, and especially in its final stages, the Red Army took a
tremendous number  of  German soldiers prisoner. The prisoners  were held in
utterly inhuman conditions,  and it was not surprising that some of them did
things that  they  would not have done in  any other  situation.  They  were
people driven to extremes by the brutal  Gulag regime, who  committed crimes
against  their fellow prisoners, sometimes even murdering their comrades, or
forcing them to suicide. Many of those  who survived, once released from the
prison  camp,  were afraid to return to  Germany and  settled in the  Soviet
Union. Though the percentage of such people was small it still meant quite a
lot of  people, all of whom were  of  course on  the records  of  the Soviet
secret services and were  used by them.  The Soviet special  services helped
many of them to settle down  and have a family. There were plenty  of German
women from among the Germans long settled in Russia. So now the Soviet Union
has  a  second generation of  Soviet Germans, born in  the  Soviet  Union of
fathers who  have  committed crimes against the  German  people. This is the
kind of young German who can be met with in many spetsnaz units.

        ___

     Very rarely one comes across young  Soviet Italians, too, with the same
background as the Spaniards and Germans. And spetsnaz contains Turks, Kurds,
Greeks,  Koreans,  Mongolians, Finns and people of  other nationalities. How
they came to be  there I  do not  know. But it can be taken for granted that
every one of them has a  much-loved  family in the  Soviet  Union.  Spetsnaz
trusts its soldiers, but still prefers to have hostages for each of its men.
     The result is that the percentage of spetsnaz soldiers who were born in
the  Soviet Union  to parents of  genuine foreign extraction is  quite high.
With  the mixture  of  Soviet  nationalities,  mainly  Russian,  Ukrainians,
Latvians, Lithuanians, Estonians, Georgians and Uzbeks, the units are a very
motley company indeed. You  may even, suddenly, come  across a real Chinese.
Such people, citizens  of the USSR but  of foreign extraction, are  known as
`the  other  people'.  I  don't  know  where the  name  came  from, but  the
foreigners accept it and are not offended. In my view it is used without any
tinge  of racism,  in  a spirit  rather  of  friendship and  good humour, to
differentiate people  who are  on the  one hand  Soviet people  born  in the
Soviet  Union of Soviet parents,  and who on  the other  hand differ sharply
from the main body of spetsnaz  soldiers in their appearance, speech, habits
and manners.
     I have  never heard of  there being purely  national formations  within
spetsnaz -- a German platoon or a Spanish company.  It is perfectly possible
that they would  be created in case of necessity, and perhaps there are some
permanent spetsnaz  groups chosen  on a purely  national basis. But I cannot
confirm this.

--------

      Chapter 6. Athletes



     In the Soviet Union sport has been nationalised. That means to say that
it does  not serve the interests of individuals  but of  society as a whole.
The interests of the individual and the  interests of  society are sometimes
very  different.   The  state  defends  the  interests  of  society  against
individuals, not just in sport but in all other spheres.
     Some individuals  want to be strong,  handsome and attractive. That  is
why  `body-building'  is so popular in the  West. It is  an  occupation  for
individuals.  In  the  Soviet  Union it  scarcely  exists, because  such  an
occupation brings no benefit to the state. Why should the  state  spend  the
nation's resources so that someone can be strong and beautiful? Consequently
the  state does not  spend a single kopek  on such things, does not organise
athletic competitions, does not reward the victors with prizes and  does not
advertise achievements in that field. There are  some individuals who engage
in body-building, but they have no resources and no rights to organise their
own societies and associations.
     The same  applies to billiards, golf and  some other forms of which the
only purpose is relaxation and  amusement. What  benefits would it bring the
state if it spent money  on such  forms  of sport? For  the  same reason the
Soviet Union has done  nothing about sport  for  invalids. Why should it? To
make the invalids happy?
     But  that same  state  devotes  colossal  resources to sport which does
bring  benefit  to the state. In the  Soviet Union  any sport is  encouraged
which: demonstrates the  superiority of the  Soviet system  over  any  other
system; provides  the ordinary people with something to take their minds off
their everyday  worries; helps to strengthen the state, military  and police
apparatus.
     The Soviet  Union is ready to encourage any sport  in which achievement
is measured in  minutes, seconds, metres, kilometres, centimetres, kilograms
or  grams. If an  athlete shows some promise  that  he may run a distance  a
tenth of a  second quicker than  an  American or  may jump half a centimetre
higher  than his rival across  the  ocean, the state will create for such an
athlete whatever conditions he needs: it will build him  a personal training
centre,  get together  a personal  group of trainers,  doctors,  managers or
scientific  consultants.  The  state  is  rich  enough  to  spend  money  on
self-advertisement.  These  `amateur' sportsmen  earn  large sums  of money,
though exactly how much is a secret. The question has irritated some Soviets
because  it  would  not  be  a secret  if  the  amount were  small. Even the
Literaturnaya Gazeta,  on  6 August,  1986,  raised the  question with  some
indignation.
     The  Soviet Union  encourages  any  striking spectator  sport which can
attract millions  of people, make them  drop what  they are doing and admire
the Soviet gymnasts, figure-skaters or acrobats. It also encourages all team
games.  Basketball,  volleyball,  water  polo  are  all  popular.  The  most
aggressive of the team  games, ice-hockey,  is  perhaps more of  a  national
religion  than  is Communist  ideology.  Finally,  it  encourages  any sport
directly  connected  with  the  development  of  military  skills: shooting,
flying, gliding, parachute jumping, boxing, sambo, karate, the biathlon, the
military triathlon, and so forth.
     The most  successful, richest and largest society in  the  Soviet Union
concerned with  sport is the Central Army Sports Club (ZSKA). Members of the
club  have  included 850 European  champions,  625 world  champions  and 182
Olympic champions. They have set up 341 European and 430 world records.1

     1 All figures as of 1 January, 1979.

     Such  results  do not  indicate  that the  Soviet Army is the  best  at
training  top-class athletes. This was admitted even  by Pravda.2 The secret
of  success  lies  in  the enormous  resources of  the Soviet  Army.  Pravda
describes what happens: `It  is sufficient for some even slightly  promising
boxer  to come on the scene and he is immediately lured across to the ZSKA.'
As a result, out of  the twelve best boxers in the Soviet Union ten are from
the Army Club, one from Dinamo (the sports organisation run by the KGB), and
one from the Trud sports club. But of those ten army boxers, not one was the
original product of the Army club.  They had all been lured  away from other
clubs  --  the Trudoviye  reservy,  the Spartak or the Burevestnik. The same
thing  happens in ice-hockey,  parachute jumping,  swimming and  many  other
sports.

     2 2 September, 1985.

     How does the army club manage to  attract  athletes to  it? Firstly  be
giving them military rank. Any athlete who joins  the ZSKA is given the rank
of sergeant, sergeant-major,  warrant officer or officer, depending  on what
level he  is at. The better  his  results as an athlete the higher the rank.
Once he  has  a  military rank an athlete is able to devote  as much time to
sport as he wishes and at the  same time be regarded as an  amateur, because
professionally he  is a soldier.  Any Soviet `amateur' athlete who  performs
slightly better than the average receives extra pay in various forms -- `for
additional nourishment',  `for  sports clothing',  `for  travelling', and so
forth. The `amateur' receives  for indulging in his sport much  more than  a
doctor or a skilled engineer, so long as he achieves European standards. But
the Soviet Army also  pays him,  and not  badly,  for his military rank  and
service.
     The ZSKA is very  attractive for  an athlete in that, when  he  can  no
longer  engage in his sport at international level, he can still retain  his
military  rank and pay. In most other clubs he would be finished altogether.
What has  this  policy produced? At  the  14th  winter Olympic Games, Soviet
military athletes won seventeen  gold medals. If one counts also the  number
of  silver and bronze winners, the number of athletes  with military rank is
greatly increased.  And if  one were to  draw up a similar  list of military
athletes at the summer Games it would take up many pages. Is  there a single
army in the world that comes near the Soviet Army in this achievement?

        ___

     Now for  another question: why is the Soviet Army so ready to  hand out
military ranks to athletes, to pay  them a salary and  provide them with the
accommodation and privileges of army officers?
     The answer is  that the  ZSKA and its numerous branches provide  a base
that  spetsnaz  uses  for recruiting its best fighters.  Naturally not every
member of the ZSKA is  a  spetsnaz soldier.  But the best athletes  in  ZSKA
almost always are.
     Spetsnaz  is  a  mixture  of  sport,   politics,  espionage  and  armed
terrorism.  It is difficult to determine what takes precedence  and what  is
subordinate to what, everything is so closely linked together.
     In the first place the Soviet Union seeks international prestige in the
form  of  gold  medals  at  the  Olympics.  To  achieve  that  it  needs  an
organisation with the strictest discipline  and rules, capable of  squeezing
every ounce of strength out of the athletes without ever letting  them slack
off.
     In the second place the Soviet  Army needs an enormous number of people
with  exceptional athletic ability  at  Olympic level  to carry out  special
missions behind  the enemy's lines. It is desirable that these people should
be able to visit foreign countries in peace time. Sport makes that possible.
As far as the athletes are concerned, they are grateful for a very rich club
which can pay them well, provide them with  cars and apartments, and arrange
trips  abroad for  them. Moreover, they need  the sort of club in which they
can be regarded  as amateurs, though they will work nowhere else but in  the
club.
     Spetsnaz is the point where the interests of the state, the Soviet Army
and  military intelligence coincide with  the interests of  some individuals
who want to devote their whole lives to sport.

        ___

     After the  Second World  War, as  a result  of the  experience  gained,
sports  battalions were  created  by  the  headquarters  of  every  military
district, group of  forces and fleet; at  army and flotilla  HQ level sports
companies were formed. These huge sports formations were  directly under the
control  of  the Ministry  of Defence. They provided  the means  of bringing
together the  best athletes  whose job was to defend the sporting honour  of
the particular  army,  flotilla, district, group  or  fleet  in  which  they
served.  Some of  the  athletes  were people called up  for  their  military
service, who left  the Army once they had completed  their service. But  the
majority  remained in the military sports organisation  for a long time with
the rank of sergeant and higher. Soviet military intelligence chose its best
men from the members of the sports units.
     At the end of  the  1960s it was recognised  that a sports company or a
sports battalion was too much of a contradiction  in terms. It  could arouse
unnecessary attention from outsiders. So the sports units were disbanded and
in their  place came the sports  teams. The  change was purely cosmetic. The
sports teams of the military districts, groups, fleets and so forth exist as
independent  units.  The soldiers, sergeants,  praporshiki and officers  who
belong to them are  not serving  in  army  regiments, brigades or divisions.
Their service is in  the  sports  team under the control of  the  district's
headquarters.  The  majority of these sportsmen are  carefully screened  and
recruited for spetsnaz  training to carry out the most risky missions behind
the enemy's lines. Usually they  are all obliged to  take part in  parachute
jumping, sambo, rifle-shooting, running and  swimming,  apart from their own
basic sport.
     A person  looking at the teams of the military districts, groups and so
forth  with an  untrained eye will notice nothing  unusual. It is  as though
spetsnaz is a completely  separate entity. Every  athlete  and  every  small
group  have  their  own individual  tasks  and get  on  with them:  running,
swimming,  jumping  and  shooting.  But  later, in  the evenings, in closed,
well-guarded  premises,   they   study   topography,  radio  communications,
engineering  and other  special  subjects.  They  are  regularly  taken  off
secretly in ones and twos or groups, or even regiments to remote parts where
they  take  part  in  exercises. Companies  and  regiments  of  professional
athletes in spetsnaz exist only temporarily during the exercises and alerts,
and  they  then quietly disperse, becoming again innocent sections and teams
able at the right moment to turn into formidable fighting units.
     According to Colonel-General Shatilov,  the  athlete is  more energetic
and braver in battle, has more  confidence  in his strength, is difficult to
catch unawares, reacts quickly to changes of circumstance and is less liable
to tire. There is no disputing this.  A  first-class athlete is primarily  a
person who possesses  great  strength  of  will,  who  has  defeated his own
laziness  and cowardice,  who has forced himself to  run  every  day till he
drops and has  trained his  muscles to  a state of  complete  exhaustion. An
athlete is  a man  infected by the  spirit of  competition  and  who desires
victory in a competition or battle more than the average man.

        ___

     In the sports  sections and  teams of  the military  districts, groups,
armies,  fleets, flotillas there is  a  very high percentage of  women  also
engaged in sport and who defend the honour of their district,  group  and so
forth. Like the men, the  women are  given military  rank and, like the men,
are recruited into spetsnaz.
     There are no women in the usual spetsnaz units. But in the professional
sports  units of spetsnaz women  constitute  about  half  the numbers.  They
engage  in  various  kinds of  sport:  parachute jumping,  gliding,  flying,
shooting, running,  swimming, motocross,  and so  on. Every  woman who joins
spetsnaz has to engage  in some associated forms of sport apart from her own
basic sport, and among these  are some that are obligatory, such  as  sambo,
shooting and a few others. The woman have to  take  part in  exercises along
with  the men and have to study the full syllabus of subjects necessary  for
operating behind the enemy's lines.
     That  there  should  be  such  a  high  percentage   of  women  in  the
professional sports  formations of spetsnaz is a  matter  of psychology  and
strategy: if in  the course  of a war a group of tall, broadshouldered young
men were to appear behind the lines this might give  rise  to  bewilderment,
since all the men  are supposed  to  be  at the  front.  But  if in the same
situation people  were to see  a group of athletic-looking girls there would
be little likelihood of any alarm or surprise.

        ___

     To be successful in war you  have to have a very good knowledge  of the
natural conditions in the area in which you are to be operating: the terrain
and  the  climate.  You must  have a good idea  of the  habits  of the local
population, the language and the possibilities of concealment;  the forests,
undergrowth, mountains, caves, and the obstacles to be overcome; the rivers,
ravines and gullies. You must know the whereabouts  of the enemy's  military
units and police, the tactics they employ and so forth.
     A private in the  average spetsnaz  unit  cannot, of course,  visit the
places  where  he is  likely  to have to fight in  the  event  of war. But a
top-class  professional  athlete does have  the opportunity. The Soviet Army
takes advantage of such opportunities.
     For example, in 1984 the 12th world parachuting championship took place
in France.  There were altogether twenty-six gold medals to be competed for,
and the Soviet team won twenty-two of  them. The `Soviet team' was in fact a
team belonging to the armed forces of the USSR. It consisted of five men and
five women:  a  captain, a  senior  praporshik, three praporshiki,  a senior
sergeant and four sergeants. The team's trainer, its doctor and the whole of
the   technical  personnel  were  Soviet  officers.   The   Soviet  reporter
accompanying the team was a colonel. This group of `sportsmen' spent time in
Paris  and in the south of France. A very  interesting and very useful trip,
and  there were  other Soviet officers  besides -- for example a colonel who
was the trainer of the Cuban team.
     Now let  us suppose  a  war  has  broken  out.  The  Soviet  Army  must
neutralise  the  French nuclear capability.  France is  the only country  in
Europe, apart from the  Soviet Union itself, that  stores strategic  nuclear
missiles in underground  silos. The silos are an extremely important target,
possibly  the most important in Europe. The force that  will put them out of
action will be a  spetsnaz force. And who will the Soviet high  command send
to carry out the  mission? The answer  is that,  after the world parachuting
championship, they have a tailor-made team.
     It is often claimed  that sport  improves relations between  countries.
This is  a strange argument. If  it  is the case,  why  did it not occur  to
anyone before the Second World War to invite German SS parachutists to their
country to improve relations with the Nazis?
     At the  present  time  every country has good grounds for not receiving
any Soviet military athletes  on  its own territory. The USSR should  not be
judged on its record. To take three cases: the Soviet Government sent troops
into Czechoslovakia temporarily. We of course  trust the statements  made by
the  Soviet Government and know that after a certain time the  Soviet troops
will  be withdrawn  from Czechoslovakia.  But  until that happens there  are
sufficient grounds for `temporarily'  not allowing the Soviet Army into  any
free country.
     Secondly, the Soviet Union  introduced a  `limited'  contingent of  its
troops  into  Afghanistan.  The  Soviet  leaders'  idea was  that  the  word
`limited'  would serve  to  reassure everyone -- there would  be grounds for
concern if  there  were  an  `unlimited'  contingent  of  Soviet  troops  in
Afghanistan.  But so long as the  `limited' contingent  of Soviet  troops is
still  in Afghanistan it would not  be  a bad idea  to limit the  number  of
Soviet  colonels, majors, captains  and  sergeants in  the  countries of the
West, especially those wearing blue berets and little gilt parachute  badges
on  their lapels. It  is  those people in the  blue  berets who are  killing
children, women and old  men in  Afghanistan in the most brutal and ruthless
way.
     Thirdly, a Soviet  pilot shot down a passenger plane  with  hundreds of
people in it. After  that, is there any sense in  meeting  Soviet airmen  at
international competitions and finding out who  is better and who is  worse?
Surely the answer is clear, without any competition.
     Sport  is politics, and big-time sport is big-time politics. At the end
of the last war the Soviet Union seized  the three Baltic states of Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania  and the  West has never  recognised the Soviet Union's
right to those territories. All right, said the Soviet leaders, if you won't
recognise it de jure, recognise it de facto.  A  great  deal has  been done,
some of it with the  help of sport. During  the Moscow Olympic Games some of
the  competitions  took place  in Moscow  and  some of them in the  occupied
territories of the Baltic  states.  At that  time I talked  to  a number  of
Western  politicians  and  sportsmen. I asked them: if  the Soviet Union had
occupied Sweden, would they have gone to the Olympic  Games  in Moscow? With
one indignant voice they replied, `No!' But if parts of the Games  had taken
place  in Moscow and  part  in Stockholm  would  they  have gone to occupied
Stockholm? Here  there was no  limit  to their indignation. They  considered
themselves people of character  and they would never have gone  to  occupied
countries. Then why, I asked, did they go to an Olympic Games, part of which
took place in the occupied territory of the Baltic states? To  that question
I received no answer.

        ___

     The units  made  up of professional athletes in  spetsnaz are  an elite
within an elite. They  are  made up of  far  better human material (some  of
Olympic standard), enjoy incomparably better living conditions and many more
privileges than other spetsnaz units.
     In carrying out their missions the professional athletes have the right
to make contact with spetsnaz agents on enemy territory and obtain help from
them. They  are in effect  the  advance  guard  for  all the  other spetsnaz
formations.  They  are  the  first  to  be issued with  latest  weapons  and
equipment and the first to try out the newly devised and most risky kinds of
operation. It is only after experiments have been  carried out  by the units
of athletes that new weapons, equipment and ways of operating are adopted by
regular spetsnaz units. Here is an example:
     In  my  book  Aquarium, first  published  in July 1985, I described the
period  of  my  life  when I  served  as  an  officer  of  the  Intelligence
directorate  of  a military district and  often had  to act as  the personal
representative  of the district's  chief  of intelligence with  the spetsnaz
groups. The  period I described was identified: it was after  my return from
`liberated'  Czechoslovakia and  before  I  entered the  Military-Diplomatic
Academy in the summer of 1970.
     I described the ordinary spetsnaz units that  I had  to deal  with. One
group carried out a parachute jump  from 100 metres.  Each man  had just one
parachute:  in that situation a spare one was pointless. The jump took place
over snow. Throughout the book I refer only  to one type  of  parachute: the
D-1-8. Four months later, in the magazine Sovetsky Voin for November 1985, a
Lieutenant-General  Lisov published what might be  called the pre-history of
group parachute  jumps  by spetsnaz units from  critically low  levels.  The
General describes a group jump from a height of 100 metres in which each man
had only one parachute, and he explains that a spare  one is not needed. The
jump takes place over snow. The article refers to only one type of parachute
-- the D-1-8.
     General Lisov was describing trials which were carried out from October
1967 to March 1968. The General did not, of course, say why  the trials were
carried out  and  the  word  spetsnaz  was  not, of  course,  used.  But  he
underlined the fact  that  the  trial was not  conducted because it  had any
connection with sport. On the contrary, according to the rules  laid down by
the international  sports  bodies at that time,  anyone who during a contest
opened his parachute less than 400 metres from the ground was disqualified.
     General Lisov  conducted  the trial contrary  to all rules of the sport
and  not to demonstrate sporting  prowess.  The  military athletes left  the
aircraft at a height of  100 metres, so their parachutes  must  have  opened
even  lower  down.  The  group jump took place  simultaneously from  several
aircraft,  with the parachutists leaving  their plane  at  about  one-second
intervals. Each of  them  was  in the air for between 9.5  and  13  seconds.
General Lisov  summed it up  like this: 100  metres, 50  men, 23 seconds. An
amazing result by any standards.
     The  fifty men symbolised  the  fifty years of the Soviet  Army. It was
planned to  carry  out  the  jump  of  23  February,  1968,  on  the  Army's
anniversary, but because of the weather it was postponed till 1 March.
     I could not have known  at that time about General Lisov's trials.  But
it is now clear  to me  that  the tactic that was  being  developed  in  the
spetsnaz fighting  units  in  1969-70 had  been  initiated  by  professional
military athletes a year before.
     This dangerous  stunt was  carried out in my ordinary spetsnaz  unit in
rather simpler  conditions: we  jumped in a group of  thirteen  men from the
wide rear door  of  an Antonov-12 aircraft.  The professionals  described by
General Lisov jumped from the  narrow  side  doors of an Antonov-2, which is
more awkward and dangerous. The professionals made the jump in a much bigger
group, more closely together and with greater accuracy.
     In spite  of the  fact that the ordinary spetsnaz units did not succeed
and will  never succeed  in achieving results  comparable with those of  the
professional athletes, nevertheless the idea of the group jump from a height
of a  hundred  metres  provided the  fighting  units with  an  exceptionally
valuable technique. The special  troops are on the ground  before the planes
have vanished  over the horizon, and they are ready  for action  before  the
enemy has had  time to grasp  what is happening. They need this technique to
be able  to attack the enemy without any warning at all.  That is the reason
for taking such a risk.
     During a  war  the  fighting  units of  spetsnaz will  be  carrying out
missions  behind  the  enemy's  lines.  Surely  the  units  of  professional
athletes, which  are capable of  carrying out extremely  dangerous work with
even greater  precision and  speed than  the ordinary spetsnaz units, should
not be left unemployed in wartime?

        ___

     Before leaving  the subject entirely, I would  like to add  a few words
about another use  of Soviet athletes for terrorist operations. Not only the
Soviet Army but also the Soviet state's punitive apparatus (known at various
times as  the  NKVD, the  MGB, the  MVD and  the  KGB)  has  its own  sports
organisation,  Dinamo.  Here   are   some  illustrations  of  its  practical
application.
     `When  the war  broke  out  the "pure"  parachutists  disappeared, Anna
Shishmareva joined the  OMSBON.'3 Anna  Shishmareva is a famous Soviet woman
athlete  of the  pre-war  period, while OMSBON  was a brigade of the  NKVD's
osnaz  which I have already referred to. Another example:  `Among the people
in our osoby, as our unit was called, were many athletes, record holders and
Soviet champions  famous before  the  war.'4  Finally: Boris  Galushkin, the
outstanding Soviet boxer  of the pre-war period, was a lieutenant and worked
as an  interrogator in the NKVD.  During  the war he went behind  the  enemy
lines in one of the osnaz units.

     I have quite  a few examples in  my  collection.  But  the KGB  and the
Dinamo sports  club are not  my field  of interest.  I hope that one  of the
former officers of the  KGB who has fled to  the West will  write in greater
detail about the use of athletes in the Soviet secret police.
     However,  I  must  also make  mention  of  the  very mysterious  Soviet
sporting  society  known as Zenit. Officially it belongs to the ministry for
the aircraft  industry.  But  there  are  some  quite  weighty  reasons  for
believing that there is somebody else behind  the club. The Zenit  cannot be
compared with the  ZSKA or Dinamo in its sporting results or its popularity.
But it occasionally  displays a quite unusual aggressiveness in its  efforts
to acquire the best  athletes. The  style  and  the general direction of the
training in the Zenit are very militarised and very similar to what goes  on
in the ZSKA and Dinamo. Zenit deserves greater  attention  than it  has been
shown. It  is just possible  that the  researcher who studied Zenit  and its
connections seriously will make some surprising discoveries.

     3 Sovetsky Voin, No. 20, 1985.
     4 Krasnaya Zvezda, 22 May, 1985.

--------

      Chapter 7. Selection and Training



     Between soldiers and their officers  are the sergeants, an intermediate
rank with its own  internal seniority  of  junior sergeants, full sergeants,
senior sergeant and starshina. The training of  the sergeants is of critical
importance  in spetsnaz where discipline and competence  are required  to an
even more stringent degree than in the everyday life of the armed forces.
     In normal circumstances  training is  carried out by  special  training
divisions. Each of these has a permanent staff, a general, officers, warrant
officers and sergeants  and a  limited number of soldiers in support  units.
Every six months the division receives  10,000 recruits who  are distributed
among the  regiments and battalions on a temporary basis. After five  months
of  harsh training these young soldiers receive their sergeants' stripes and
are  sent out to regular divisions. It takes a month to distribute the young
sergeants  to the regular forces, to prepare  the training base for the  new
input and to receive  a  fresh contingent. After that the training programme
is repeated. Thus  each training division is  a gigantic incubator producing
20,000 sergeants a year. A  training division is organised in the usual way:
three  motorised rifle regiments, a tank regiment, an artillery regiment, an
anti-aircraft regiment, a missile battalion and so forth.  Each regiment and
battalion trains specialists  in its  own  field, from infantry sergeants to
land surveyors, topographers and signallers.
     A  training division is  a means  of  mass-producing  sergeants  for  a
gigantic army which in peacetime has in its ranks around  five  million  men
but which in  case of war  increases  considerably  in size.  There  is  one
shortcoming in  this mass production. The  selection  of  sergeants  is  not
carried out by the commanders of the regular divisions but by local military
agencies -- the military  commissariats and the mobilisation officers of the
military districts. This selection cannot  be, and is not, qualitative. When
they receive instructions from their superiors the local  authorities simply
despatch several truckloads or trainloads of recruits.
     Having  received  its 10,000  recruits, who are no  different  from any
others,  the training  division  has  in  five  months  to  turn  them  into
commanders and specialists.  A  certain number of the new recruits  are sent
straight off  to  the regular divisions on the grounds that  they are not at
all suitable for being turned into commanders. But the training division has
very strict standards and cannot normally send more than five percent of its
intake to  regular  divisions.  Then, in  exchange  for  those who were sent
straight  off, others arrive,  but they are not much  better in quality than
those sent away, so the officers and sergeants of the training division have
to exert all their ability, all their fury and inventiveness,  to turn these
people into sergeants.
     The  selection  of  future  sergeants  for  spetsnaz takes  place in  a
different way which is much  more complicated and much  more  expensive. All
the recruits  to  spetsnaz (after  a  very  careful selection) join fighting
units, where  the company  commander and platoon  commanders put their young
soldiers  through a very tough course. This  initial period  of training for
new recruits takes place  away from other soldiers.  During the  course  the
company commander  and the platoon commanders very carefully select (because
they  are  vitally  interested in the  matter)  those who  appear to be born
leaders. There are a lot of very simple devices for doing this. For example,
a group of  recruits is given the job of putting up a tent in a double quick
time,  but  no  leader  is  appointed  among  them. In a  relatively  simple
operation someone has to  co-ordinate the actions of the rest.  A very short
time  is  allowed for  the  work to be carried out and severe  punishment is
promised  if the work  is badly  done or  not completed on time. Within five
minutes the group has appointed its own leader. Again, a  group may be given
the  task of getting from  one place to  another  by  a very complicated and
confused route without losing a single  man.  And again the group will  soon
appoint  its  own  leader. Every day, every hour  and  every  minute of  the
soldier's time is  taken  up  with  hard  work,  lessons, running,  jumping,
overcoming obstacles, and practically  all the time the  group is without  a
commander. In  a few days  of very  intensive training the company commander
and platoon commanders  pick out  the  most  intelligent,  most imaginative,
strongest, most brash  and  energetic  in  the group. After  completing  the
course the majority of recruits  finish up in  sections and  platoons of the
same company, but  the best of them are sent thousands of kilometres away to
one  of the  spetsnaz training battalions where  they become sergeants. Then
they return to the companies they came from.
     It is a  very long road for the recruit. But it  has one advantage: the
potential sergeant is  not selected by the local military authority nor even
by the  training unit,  but by  a regular officer at  a very low level -- at
platoon or company level. What is  more, the selection is made on a strictly
individual basis and by the very same officer who  will in five months' time
receive the man he has  selected  back  again,  now equipped with sergeant's
stripes.
     It is impossible, of course, to introduce such a system  into the whole
of  the Soviet Armed  Forces.  It involves transporting millions of men from
one place to another. In all other branches  the path of the future sergeant
from  where  he  lives follows  this  plan:  training  division  --  regular
division.  In spetsnaz the plan is: regular unit -- training unit -- regular
unit.
     There is yet another difference  of principle. If any other  branch  of
the services needs a sergeant the military commissariat despatches a recruit
to the  training division, which  has  to  make him into  a sergeant. But if
spetsnaz needs  a  sergeant  the  company  commander sends three of his best
recruits to the spetsnaz training unit.

        ___

     The  spetsnaz training battalion works on the principle that before you
start  giving orders, you  have  to  learn  to obey them.  The whole of  the
thinking  behind  the training  battalions can be  put very simply. They say
that if you make an empty barrel airtight and drag  it down below  the water
and then let it go it shoots up and  out above the surface of the water. The
deeper it is dragged  down the faster it  rises and the further it jumps out
of the water. This is how the training battalions operate. Their  task is to
drag their ever-changing body of men deeper down.
     Each spetsnaz training battalion has its permanent  staff  of officers,
warrant  officers and sergeants  and receives its intake of 300-400 spetsnaz
recruits  who  have  already been  through  a recruit's  course  in  various
spetsnaz units.
     The regime  in  the  normal  Soviet  training  divisions  can  only  be
described  as brutal.  I experienced it  first as a  student  in a  training
division.  I  have already  described  the conditions  within  spetsnaz.  To
appreciate what conditions are  like in  a spetsnaz training battalion,  the
brutality has to be multiplied many times over.
     In the spetsnaz  training battalions the empty barrel is dragged so far
down  into the deep that it is in danger of bursting from external pressure.
A man's dignity is stripped  from him  to  such  an  extent that it is  kept
constantly at the very brink, beyond which lies suicide or the murder of his
officer.  The officers and sergeants of the  training  battalions are, every
one of them, enthusiasts for their work. Anyone who does like this work will
not  stand it for so long but goes off voluntarily to  other easier work  in
spetsnaz regular units. The only people who  stay in the training battalions
are those who derive great pleasure from their work. Their work is to  issue
orders  by which  they  make  or break  the  strongest  of  characters.  The
commander's work is constantly to see before him dozens of men, each of whom
has  one thought in his head: to kill  himself or to kill  his  officer? The
work  for  those  who  enjoy  it  provides   complete  moral  and   physical
satisfaction, just as a stuntman might derive satisfaction from leaping on a
motorcycle  over  nineteen  coaches.  The  difference  between the  stuntman
risking his neck and the commander of  a spetsnaz  training unit lies in the
fact that the  former experiences his  satisfaction for a  matter of  a  few
seconds, while the latter experiences it all the time.
     Every  soldier  taken into a  training  battalion  is given a nickname,
almost  invariably sarcastic.  He might be known  as  The  Count, The  Duke,
Caesar, Alexander  of Macedon, Louis  XI,  Ambassador, Minister  of  Foreign
Affairs, or any  variation  on  the  theme. He is  treated  with exaggerated
respect, not given orders, but asked for his opinion:
     `Would  Your Excellency  be  of  a mind  to clean  the  toilet with his
toothbrush?'
     `Illustrious Prince, would you  care to throw up in public what you ate
at lunch?'
     In spetsnaz units men  are fed much better than in  any other units  of
the armed forces, but the workload is so  great that the men are permanently
hungry, even if they do not suffer the unofficial but very common punishment
of being forced to empty their stomachs:
     `You're  on the heavy side, Count, after your  lunch! Would you care to
stick two fingers down your throat? That'll make things easier!'

        ___

     The more humiliating  the forms  of punishment a sergeant thinks up for
the  men under  him, and  the more  violently he attacks their  dignity, the
better. The task  of the  training  battalions  is  to crush  and completely
destroy  the individual, however  strong  a character he may have possessed,
and to fashion out of that person a type to fit the standards of spetsnaz, a
type who will be filled with an explosive charge  of hatred and  spite and a
craving for revenge.
     The main difficulty in carrying out this act of human engineering is to
turn the fury of the  young soldier in the right direction.  He  has to have
been reduced to the lowest limits of  his dignity and then, at precisely the
point  when he can take no  more, he can be given his sergeant's stripes and
sent off to serve in a regular unit. There he can begin to work off his fury
on his own subordinates, or better still on the enemies of Communism.
     The training  units of spetsnaz are a place  where they tease a recruit
like a dog, working him  into a rage and then letting  him off the leash. It
is not  surprising  that fights inside  spetsnaz  are a  common  occurrence.
Everyone, especially  those  who have served in  a  spetsnaz training  unit,
bears within himself a colossal charge of malice,  just  as a  thunder cloud
bears  its charge of  electricity. It  is not surprising that for a spetsnaz
private, or  even more so for a sergeant, war is just a beautiful dream, the
time when he is at last allowed to release his full charge of malice.

        ___

     Apart  from  the  unending  succession  of  humiliations,  insults  and
punishments handed out  by the commanders,  the  man serving  in  a spetsnaz
training  unit has continually to  wage a no  less bitter battle against his
own comrades who are in identical circumstances to his own.
     In the first place there is  a silent competition  for pride  of place,
for the leadership in each group of people. In  spetsnaz, as  we have  seen,
this  struggle has assumed  open and very  dramatic  forms.  Apart from this
natural battle for first place there exists an  even more serious incentive.
It derives from  the fact  that  for  every sergeant's place  in a  spetsnaz
training  battalion  there are  three candidates being  trained at the  same
time. Only the very best will be made sergeant at the end of five months. On
passing out some are given the rank of junior sergeant, while others are not
given  any rank at all  and  remain as privates in the ranks. It is a bitter
tragedy  for a man to  go  through  all the  ordeals of a  spetsnaz training
battalion and not to receive any rank but to return to his unit as a private
at the end of it.
     The  decision  whether to  promote a man to sergeant  after he has been
through the  training course is made by a commission  of GRU officers or the
Intelligence  Directorate of the military  district  in whose  territory the
particular battalion is stationed. The decision is  made on the basis of the
result of examinations conducted  in the presence of  the commission, on the
main   subjects  studied:   political  training;  the  tactics  of  spetsnaz
(including  knowledge  of  the  probable enemy and  the  main  targets  that
spetsnaz operates); weapons training (knowledge of spetsnaz armament, firing
from various kinds of  weapons including  foreign  weapons,  and the  use of
explosives);  parachute  training; physical  training;  and weapons  of mass
destruction and defence against them.
     The  commission does not distinguish between  the soldiers according to
where they have come from, but only according  to their degree  of readiness
to carry  out missions.  Consequently, when the men who  have passed out are
returned to their  units there  may arise a lack of balance among them.  For
example, a spetsnaz company that sends nine privates to a training battalion
in the  hope of  receiving three  sergeants back  after  five months,  could
receive one  sergeant,  one  junior  sergeant  and  seven  privates, or five
sergeants, three  junior sergeants and  one private.  This  system  has been
introduced  quite deliberately.  The officer commanding  a  regular company,
with  nine trained men to choose from, puts only the very best in charge  of
his sections. He  can  put anybody he  pleases  into  the vacancies  without
reference to his rank. Privates who have been through the training battalion
can be appointed commanders of sections.  Sergeants and junior sergeants for
whom there are  not  enough posts as  commanders will carry  out the work of
privates despite their sergeant's rank.
     The spetsnaz company commander may also  have, apart  from  the freshly
trained men, sergeants and privates who completed their training earlier but
were  not appointed to positions  as  commanders.  Consequently  the company
commander can entrust the work of  commanding sections to any of them, while
all the new arrivals from the training battalion can be used as privates.
     The  private or junior sergeant  who is appointed  to command a section
has to struggle to show his superiors that he really is worthy of that trust
and  that he really is the best. If  he succeeds in doing so  he will in due
course be given  the appropriate rank. If he is unworthy he will be removed.
There are always candidates for his job.
     This  system  has two objectives:  the  first is  to  have  within  the
spetsnaz regular  units a large reserve  of commanders  at the  very  lowest
level. During a war spetsnaz will suffer tremendous losses. In every section
there  are always  a minimum  of  two  fully trained men capable  of  taking
command at  any moment; the second is to generate a continual battle between
sergeants for the right  to be a commander.  Every commander of a section or
deputy commander of a  platoon  can be  removed  at any time and replaced by
someone more worthy of the job. The removal of a sergeant from a position of
command is carried out on the authority of the company commander (if it is a
separate spetsnaz company) or on the authority of the battalion commander or
regiment. When he is  removed the former commander is  reduced to the status
of a private soldier. He may retain his rank, or his rank may be reduced, or
he may lose the rank of sergeant altogether.

        ___

     The training  of  officers for spetsnaz often take place  at  a special
faculty of  the  Lenin Komsomol Higher Airborne Command  School  in  Ryazan.
Great care is taken over their selection  for the school. The  ones who join
the  faculty are  among the very best. The four years  of gruelling training
are also four  years of continual testing and selection to establish whether
the  students are capable of  becoming  spetsnaz  officers or not. When they
have completed their studies at the special  faculty some of them are posted
to the  airborne troops  or the  air assault troops. Only the very best  are
posted to spetsnaz, and even  then a young officer can at any moment be sent
off into the  airborne forces. Only those who are absolutely suitable remain
in  spetsnaz. Other  officers are  appointed from among  the men passing out
from other command schools who have never previously heard of spetsnaz.
     The heads of the GRU consider  that special training  is  necessary for
every  function,  except that of leader. A leader cannot be produced by even
the best training scheme. A leader is born a leader and nobody can help  him
or  advise  him how to  manage  people.  In  this  case  advice  offered  by
professors  does  not help; it  only hinders. A professor  is a man who  has
never been a leader and never will be, and nobody ever taught  Hitler how to
lead a  nation.  Stalin was  thrown out of his theological seminary. Marshal
Georgi Zhukov, the outstanding military leader of the Second World  War, had
a  million  men,  and  often  several  million,  under  his  direct  command
practically  throughout  the war.  Of  all the generals and marshals  at his
level he was the only one who did not  suffer a single defeat in battle. Yet
he had  no  real military  education. He did not  graduate  from a  military
school to  become  a  junior officer;  he  did not  graduate from a military
academy to become a senior officer; and he did not graduate from the Academy
of  General Staff to become a general and later a marshal. But he became one
just the same. There was Khalkhin-Gol,  Yelnya, the counter-offensive before
Moscow,  Stalingrad,  the lifting  of  the  Leningrad  blockade,  Kursk, the
crossing of the Dnieper, the Belorussian operation, and the Vistula-Oder and
Berlin operations. What need had he of education? What could  the professors
teach him?

        ___

     The  headquarters of  every  military  district has  a  Directorate for
Personnel, which does a tremendous  amount of  work on officers' records and
on the studying, selecting and posting of officers. On instructions from the
chief of staff of the  military district  the Directorate for  Personnel  of
each district will do a search  for  officers who  come  up to the  spetsnaz
standard.
     The  criteria  which  the   Intelligence  directorate  sends   to   the
Directorate of Personnel are top secret. But one  can easily tell by looking
at the officers of spetsnaz the qualities which they certainly possess.
     The first and most important of them are of course  a strong, unbending
character  and the  marks  of  a born leader. Every year thousands  of young
officers with all kinds of specialities -- from the missile forces, the tank
troops,  the  infantry,  the  engineers  and  signallers  pass  through  the
Personnel directorate of each military district. Each officer is preceded by
his  dossier in which  a great deal is  written  down.  But that is  not the
decisive factor. When he arrives in the Directorate for Personnel  the young
officer  is  interviewed by  several  experienced  officers specialising  in
personnel matters. It is in the course of these  interviews  that  a  man of
really remarkable personality stands out,  with dazzling  clarity, from  the
mass of  thousands of other strong-willed and physically  powerful men. When
the personnel officers discover him, the interviewing is taken over by other
officers  of the  Intelligence directorate  and it  is  they who  will  very
probably offer him a suitable job.
     But officers for spetsnaz are occasionally not selected when they  pass
through  the  Personnel  directorate.  They  pass  through  the interviewing
process without distinguishing themselves in any way,  and are given jobs as
commanders.  Then  stories may  begin  to  circulate  through the  regiment,
division,  army  and district  to  the effect  that  such and such  a  young
commander is a brute, ready to attack  anyone,  but holds  his own, performs
miracles, has turned a backward platoon into a model unit, and so forth. The
man  is  rapidly promoted  and can be sure  of  being appointed  to  a penal
battalion -- not to  be punished, but to  take charge of  the  offenders. At
this  point the Intelligence  directorate takes a hand in the matter. If the
officer is  in command of  a penal platoon or company and he is tough enough
to  handle really difficult  men without being scared of  them or fearing to
use his own strength, he will be weighed up very carefully for a job.
     There is one other way in which officers are chosen. Every officer with
his  unit has to  mount  guard for the  garrison and patrol the streets  and
railway stations in search of offenders. The military commandant of the town
and the  officer commanding the garrison  (the senior military man in  town)
see these officers every day.  Day  after day they take over  the  duty from
another officer,  perform  it  for  twenty-four hours and then  hand over to
another officer. The system has existed for decades and all serving officers
carry out these duties several times a year. It is the right moment to study
their characters.
     Say  a drunken private  is hauled  into the guardroom. One officer will
say, `Pour ice-cold water over him and throw him in a cell!' Another officer
will behave differently. When he sees the drunken soldier, his reaction will
be along the lines of:  `Just bring him in here! Shut the door and cover him
with a wet blanket (so as not to  leave any marks). I'll teach him a lesson!
Kick him in the  guts! That'll teach him not  to drink  next time. Now lads,
beat him  up as best  you can. Go  on! I'd do the same to you, my boys!  Now
wipe  him off with snow.'  It needs little imagination to see which  of  the
officers  is  regarded  more favourably by  his superiors. The  Intelligence
directorate doesn't need very many people -- just the best.
     The second most important quality is physical endurance. An officer who
is offered  a post is  likely  to be a runner, swimmer, skier or athlete  in
some form of sport demanding long and very concentrated physical effort. And
a third factor is the physical dimensions of the man. Best of all is that he
should be an  enormous hulk  with  vast shoulders  and  huge fists. But this
factor can be ignored if a man appears of small build and no broad shoulders
but with  a  really  strong character  and  a  great capacity  for  physical
endurance. Such a person is taken in, of course. The long history of mankind
indicates that strong characters are met with no less frequently among short
people than among giants.

        ___

     Any  young officer can be invited to join  spetsnaz irrespective of his
previous  speciality  in the armed  forces.  If  he possesses  the  required
qualities of  an iron will, an air of unquestionable authority, ruthlessness
and an independent  way of taking decisions and acting, if he is by nature a
gambler  who is not afraid to take a chance with anything, including his own
life, then he will eventually be invited to the headquarters of the military
district. He will be  led  along  the  endless corridors to a little  office
where he  will  be interviewed by a general  and  some  senior officers. The
young officer  will  not  of course know that  the  general  is head  of the
Intelligence directorate of  the military district or that the colonel  next
to him is head of the third department (spetsnaz) of the directorate.
     The atmosphere  of the interview is relaxed, with  smiles and  jokes on
both sides. `Tell  us about yourself, lieutenant. What  are your  interests?
What  games  do you play? You  hold the  divisional record on skis  over ten
kilometres? Very good. How did your men do  in the last rifle-shooting test?
How do you  get along with your deputy? Is he a difficult chap? Uncontrolled
character? Our information is that you tamed him. How did you manage it?'
     The interview moves gradually  on to the subject of the armed forces of
the probable enemy and takes the form of a gentle examination.
     `You  have an American division  facing your division on the front. The
American division has "Lance" missiles. A nasty thing?'
     `Of course, comrade general.'
     `Just supposing, lieutenant, that you were chief of staff of the Soviet
division, how would you destroy the enemy's missiles?'
     `With our own 9K21 missiles.'
     `Very  good, lieutenant, but the location of  the American  missiles is
not known.'
     `I would ask the air force to locate them and possibly bomb them.'
     `But there's bad  weather, lieutenant,  and  the anti-aircraft defences
are strong.'
     `Then  I would send  forward  from our division  a  deep reconnaissance
company to find the  missiles, cut the throats of the  missile crew and blow
up the missiles.'
     `Not a bad  idea. Very  good, in fact. Have you ever heard, lieutenant,
that there are units in the American Army known as the "Green Berets"?'
     `Yes, I have heard.'
     `What do you think of them?'
     `I look at  the question from two  points of view --  the political and
the military.'
     `Tell us both of them, please.'
     `They  are   mercenary  cutthroats  of  American  capitalism,  looters,
murderers and rapists. They burn down villages and massacre the inhabitants,
women, children and old people.'
     `Enough. Your second point of view?'
     `They  are  marvellously  well-trained units for  operating  behind the
enemy's lines. Their  job is  to  paralyse the enemy's system of command and
control. They  are a very  powerful and effective instrument in the hands of
commanders....'
     `Very well. So what would you think, lieutenant, if we were to organise
something similar in our army?'
     `I think, comrade general, that it would  be  a correct decision.  I am
sure, comrade general, that that is our army's tomorrow.'
     `It's the  army's today, lieutenant. What would you say if  we were  to
offer you the chance to become an officer in these troops? The discipline is
like iron. Your authority as a commander would be almost absolute. You would
be the one taking the decisions, not your superiors for you.'
     `If I were to be offered such an opportunity,  comrade general, I would
accept.'
     `All  right,  lieutenant, now you can go back to your regiment. Perhaps
you  will  receive  an  offer.  Continue  your   service  and   forget  this
conversation took place.  You realise, of course, what will happen to you if
anybody gets to know about what we have discussed?'
     `I understand, comrade general.'
     `We have informed  your commanding  officers,  including the regimental
commander, that you came before us as a candidate for posting to the Chinese
frontier -- to Mongolia, Afghanistan,  the  islands  of the Arctic  Ocean --
that sort of thing. Goodbye for now, lieutenant.'
     `Goodbye, comrade general.'

        ___

     An officer who joins spetsnaz from  another branch of the armed  forces
does not have  to  go through any additional  training course. He is  posted
straight to a regular unit and is given command of a platoon. I  was present
many times  at exercises where a  young officer who had taken over a platoon
knew a lot less about  spetsnaz  than  many of  his  men  and  certainly his
sergeants. But a young  commander learns  quickly,  along with the privates.
There  is nothing to be ashamed of in learning. The  officer could not  know
anything about the technique and tactics of spetsnaz.
     It is not unusual for a young officer in these circumstances to begin a
lesson, announce  the subject and purpose of  it, and then  order the senior
sergeant to conduct the lesson while he takes up position in the ranks along
with the young privates.  His platoon  will  already  have  a  sense of  the
firmness of  the commander's character. The men will  already know that  the
commander is the leader of the platoon, the one unquestionable leader. There
are  questions he cannot yet answer  and equipment he cannot yet handle. But
they all know that, if it is a question of running ten kilometres, their new
commander will be among  the first home, and if  it is a  question of firing
from a weapon their commander will of course be the best. In a few weeks the
young officer  will make his first parachute  jump along  with the  youngest
privates. He will  be given  the chance to  jump  as often as he likes.  The
company commander and the other officers will help him to understand what he
did not know before. At night he will read his top secret instructions and a
month later he will be ready to challenge any of his sergeants to a contest.
A few months later  he  will be  the best in all matters and will teach  his
platoon by simply giving them the most  confident of all  commands: `Do as I
do!'
     An  officer who  gets  posted  to spetsnaz  from other branches  of the
forces without  having  had  any special training  is  of  course an unusual
person.  The officers commanding  spetsnaz  seek out  such people and  trust
them. Experience shows that these officers without special  training produce
much better results than those  who have graduated from the  special faculty
at the Higher Airborne  Command  school.  There  is  nothing  surprising  or
paradoxical  about  this. If Mikhail  Koshkin  had had special  training  in
designing tanks  he  would never have created the T-34 tank, the best in the
world. Similarly, if someone had decided to teach Mikhail Kalashnikov how to
design  a   sub-machine-gun  the   teaching  might  easily  have  ruined   a
self-educated genius.
     The officers commanding the GRU believe  that  strong  and  independent
people must be  found and told what to  do,  leaving them  with the right to
choose  which  way  to  carry out  the task  given  them.  That  is  why the
instructions for spetsnaz  tactics are so short. All  Soviet regulations are
in general much shorter than those in Western armies, and a Soviet commander
is guided by them less frequently than his opposite member in the West.

        ___

     The officer of  powerful  build  is only one  type of spetsnaz officer.
There is another type, whose build, width  of shoulder and so  forth are not
taken  into account, although the man must  be no less strong of  character.
This type might be called the `intelligentsia' of spetsnaz,  and it includes
officers who are  not directly  involved with the men  in the  ranks and who
work with their heads far more than with their hands.
     There is, of course, no precise line drawn between the two types. Take,
for  example,  the officer-interpreters  who  would seem to  belong  to  the
`intelligentsia' of spetsnaz. There is an officer-interpreter, with a fluent
knowledge of at least two foreign languages, in every spetsnaz  company. His
contact  with the men  in the company exists mainly because he  teaches them
foreign  languages. But, as we  know, this is not a subject  that takes much
time for the spetsnaz soldier. The interpreter is constantly  at the company
commander's side, acting as his unofficial adjutant. At  first  glance he is
an `intellectual'. But that  is just the first impression. The  fact is that
the interpreter jumps along with  the company  and spends many days  with it
plodding across marshes and mountains, sand and snow. The interpreter is the
first to drive nails into the heads of enemy prisoners to get the  necessary
information out of them.  That  is  his work:  to drag out finger-nails, cut
tongues in  half  (known  as `making  a  snake')  and stuff  hot coals  into
prisoners' mouths.  Military interpreters for the  Soviet  armed  forces are
trained at the Military Institute.
     Among the students at the Institute there are those  who are physically
strong and tough, with strong nerves and  characters of  granite.  These are
the ones invited to join spetsnaz. Consequently, although the interpreter is
sometimes  regarded as  a  representative  of  the  `intelligentsia', it  is
difficult  to distinguish  him by appearance  from the platoon commanders of
the company in  which he serves. His job is not simply  to ask questions and
wait for an answer. His job  to get the right answer. Upon that depends  the
success of the mission and the lives of an enormous number of people. He has
to force the prisoner to talk if he does not want to, and having received an
answer  the interpreter must extract from the  prisoner confirmation that it
is  the  only  right  answer.  That  is   why  he  has  to  apply  not  very
`intellectual' methods to his prisoner. With  that in mind  the interpreters
in spetsnaz can be seen as neither commanders  nor intellectuals, but a link
between the two classes.
     Pure representatives of spetsnaz `intelligentsia'  are found  among the
officers of the spetsnaz intelligence posts. They are selected  from various
branches, and their physical  development  is not a  key  factor.  They  are
officers  who have already been through the military schools and have served
for not less than  two  years. After posting  to the  third  faculty of  the
Military-Diplomatic Academy,  they  work in  intelligence  posts  (RPs)  and
centres (RZs). Their job is to look for opportunities for recruitment and to
direct the agent network. Some of them work with the agent-informer network,
some with the spetsnaz network.
     An  officer  working with  the  spetsnaz agent  network is  a  spetsnaz
officer in the full sense. But he  is  not dropped by parachute  and he does
not have to run, fight, shoot or  cut people's throats. His job  is to study
the progress  of  thousands  of  people and discover among them  individuals
suitable for spetsnaz; to seek a way of approaching them and getting to know
them;  to establish  and  develop relations  with them; and then  to recruit
them.  These officers  wear civilian clothes most  of the  time, and if they
have  to  wear military uniform they wear the uniform of the branch in which
they previously served: artillery, engineering troops,  the medical service.
Or  they  wear the  uniform of the unit within which the secret intelligence
unit of spetsnaz is concealed.
     The senior command of spetsnaz consists of colonels and generals of the
GRU   who   have  graduated  from  one  of   the   main  faculties   of  the
Military-Diplomatic Academy -- that  is, the first  or second faculties, and
have  worked  for many years  in the  central apparat  of the GRU and in its
rezidenturas  abroad. Each  one  of them  has a first-class  knowledge of  a
country or group of countries because of working abroad for a  long time. If
there is  a possibility  of  continuing  to work abroad he will  do so.  But
circumstances may  mean that further  trips  abroad are  impossible. In that
case he continues  to  serve  in  the  central apparat of  the GRU or in  an
Intelligence directorate of a  military district, fleet  or group of forces.
He then  has control  of  all the  instruments  of  intelligence,  including
spetsnaz.
     I frequently  came across people of this class. In every case they were
men who  were  silent  and  unsociable.  They have  elegant  exteriors, good
command of foreign languages and refined manners. They hold tremendous power
in their hands and know how to handle authority.
     Some however,  are  men who  have never attended  the Academy  and have
never been in countries regarded as  potential  enemies.  They have advanced
upwards thanks to their inborn qualities, to useful contacts which they know
how to  arrange  and support,  to their own striving for power, and to their
continual and successful struggle for power  which is full of cunning tricks
and tremendous risks. They are intoxicated  by  power  and the  struggle for
power. It  is their only aim in  life and they go at it, scrambling over the
slippery slopes and summits. One of the elements of success in  their life's
struggle  is of  course the state  of the units entrusted to them  and their
readiness at any moment to  carry out any mission set by the higher command.
No senior official in spetsnaz  can be held up by considerations of a moral,
juridical or any other  kind. His  upward flight or descent depends entirely
on how a mission is carried out. You may  be sure  that  any mission will be
carried out at any cost and by any means.

        ___

     I often hear it said  that  the Soviet soldier  is  a  very bad soldier
because  he serves for  only  two  years  in the  army. Some Western experts
consider it impossible to produce a good soldier in such a short time.
     It  is  true that  the Soviet soldier  is  a conscript, but it must  be
remembered  that he is conscript in  a totally  militarised  country.  It is
sufficient to remember  that even the leaders of the party  in  power in the
Soviet Union have the military ranks of generals and marshals. The  whole of
Soviet  society  is militarised and swamped with military propaganda. From a
very early age Soviet children engage in war  games in a  very  serious way,
often using real submachine guns (and sometimes even  fighting tanks), under
the direction of officers and generals of the Soviet Armed Forces.
     Those children who show a special interest in military service join the
Voluntary Society for Co-operation with the Army, Air Force and Fleet, known
by  its  Russian  initial  letters  as  DOSAAF.  DOSAAF is  a  para-military
organisation with 15 million members  who have  regular training in military
trades and engage  in  sports  with a military  application. DOSAAF not only
trains  young  people  for  military  service; it also  helps reservists  to
maintain  their qualifications  after they  have  completed  their  service.
DOSAAF has a colossal budget, a widespread network of airfields and training
centres and clubs of various  sizes  and uses which carry out elementary and
advanced  training of military  specialists  of  every  possible  kind, from
snipers to radio operators, from fighter pilots to underwater swimmers, from
glider pilots  to astronauts, and from tank drivers to the  people who train
military doctors.
     Many  outstanding  Soviet  airmen,   the  majority  of  the  astronauts
(starting  with  Yuri  Gagarin),  famous generals  and  European  and  world
champions in military types of sport began their careers in DOSAAF, often at
the age of fourteen.
     The men in charge of DOSAAF locally are  retired officers, generals and
admirals, but the  men in  charge  at  the top  of  DOSAAF are generals  and
marshals on active service. Among the best-known leaders of the society were
Army-General A.  L.  Getman, Marshal  of the Air  Force  A.  I.  Pokryshkin,
Army-General  D.  D. Lelyushenko  and  Admiral  of  the  Fleet  G.  Yegorov.
Traditionally the top leadership  of DOSAAF includes leaders of the GRU  and
spetsnaz. At the present time (1986), for example, the first deputy chairman
of DOSAAF is Colonel-General A. Odintsev. As long ago as 1941 he was serving
in a spetsnaz  detachment on the Western Front. The detachment was under the
command of  Artur Sprogis. Throughout  his life Odintsev  has  been directly
connected with the GRU and terrorism. At the present time his main job is to
train young  people of both sexes for the ordeal of fighting a war. The most
promising of them are later sent to serve in spetsnaz.
     When we speak about the Soviet conscript soldiers, and especially those
who were taken into spetsnaz,  we must  remember that each  one  of them has
already been through three or four years of intensive military training, has
already made parachute jumps, fired a sub-machine gun and been on a survival
course.   He  has   already  developed  stamina,  strength,  drive  and  the
determination to conquer. The difference  between him and a  regular soldier
in  the West  lies in  the fact  that  the  regular soldier is paid for  his
efforts. Our young man gets no money. He  is a fanatic and an enthusiast. He
has to pay himself (though only a nominal sum) for being taught how to use a
knife, a silenced pistol, a spade and explosives.
     After completing  his  service in spetsnaz the soldier either becomes a
regular soldier  or  he returns  to  `peaceful' work  and  in his spare time
attends one of  the many DOSAAF  clubs.  Here  is a typical  example: Sergei
Chizhik  was born in  1965. While still at school he joined the DOSAAF club.
He  made  120 parachute jumps. Then he was  called into the Army  and served
with special troops in Afghanistan. He distinguished  himself in battle, and
completed his service in 1985. In May 1986 he took part in a DOSAAF  team in
experiments in  surviving  in Polar conditions. As one  of a group of Soviet
`athletes' he dropped by parachute on the North Pole.
     DOSAAF is a very  useful  organisation for  spetsnaz in  many ways. The
Soviet Union has signed  a  convention undertaking not  to use the Antarctic
for military purposes. But in the event of war it  will of course be used by
the military, and for that  reason the  corresponding  experience has  to be
gained. That is why the training for a  parachute drop on the South Pole  in
the Antarctic is  being planned  out by  spetsnaz  but  to be carried out by
DOSAAF. The difference is only cosmetic:  the  men who make the jump will be
the  very  same  cutthroats  as  went  through  the  campaigns  in  Hungary,
Czechoslovakia and Afghanistan. They are now considered to be civilians, but
they  are under  the  complete  control of  generals  like  Odintsev, and in
wartime they  will become  the very  same  spetsnaz troops  as we  now label
contemptuously `conscripts'.

--------

      Chapter 8. The Agent Network



     Soviet  military intelligence  controls  an enormous number  of  secret
agents, who, in  this context, are foreigners who have been recruited by the
Soviet intelligence  services  and who carry  out tasks for those  services.
They  can be divided into two networks, the  strategic  and the operational.
The  first is recruited  by the central apparat  of  the GRU  and  the GRU's
numerous branches within the country  and abroad. It  works for  the General
Staff of the armed forces of the USSR and its agents are recruited mainly in
the capitals of hostile states or in Moscow. The second  is recruited by the
intelligence  directorates  of fronts,  fleets, groups of  forces,  military
districts   and  the  intelligence  departments  of  armies  and  flotillas,
independently of the central GRU apparat, and its agents serve the needs  of
a particular  front, fleet,  army and so on. They  are recruited mainly from
the territory of the Soviet Union or from countries friendly to it.
     The division of agents into strategic and operational networks does not
in  any way indicate a difference in quality. The central apparat of the GRU
naturally has  many more  agents than any military district group of forces,
in fact more than all the  fleets, military district armies and so forth put
together. They  are, broadly  speaking, people  who  have  direct access  to
official secrets. Nevertheless the operational  network has  also frequently
obtained information of interest  not just to  local commanders but  also to
the top Soviet leadership.
     During the Second World War the information coming from the majority of
foreign capitals was not of interest to the Soviet Union. Useful information
came from a very small number of locations, but however vital it was, it was
insufficient  to  satisfy  wartime  demands.  Consequently  the  operational
network of the armies, fronts and fleets increased many times in size during
the war and came to be  of greater importance than the strategic  network of
agents of  the central  GRU  apparat.  This  could happen  again in  another
full-scale war  if,  contrary  to the military  and political  consensus  on
future wars, it proved to be long drawn-out.
     The  spetsnaz  agent  network,  an  operational  one,  works  for every
military district,  group  of forces,  fleet and front (which  all  have  in
addition  an  information  network).  Recruitment of agents  is carried  out
mainly from the territory of the Soviet Union and states friendly to it. The
main places where spetsnaz looks out for  likely  candidates for recruitment
are: major ports  visited  by  foreign tourists; and among foreign students.
Spetsnaz examines the correspondence  of Soviet citizens and of citizens  of
the satellite countries and listens in to the telephone conversations in the
hope of coming across interesting contacts between  Soviet and East European
citizens and  people living in  countries  that  spetsnaz  is interested in.
Usually a foreign person who has been  recruited can be persuaded to recruit
several other people who may  never have been in the Soviet Union or had any
contact with  Soviet  citizens. It sometimes happens  that spetsnaz officers
turn up in somebody else's territory and recruit agents. Most of them do not
have diplomatic cover and do  not recruit  agents in the capital cities, but
drop off  from Soviet  merchant  and fishing  vessels  in foreign ports  and
appear in  the foreign country as drivers  of Soviet trucks, Aeroflot pilots
or stewards of Soviet  trains. One proven place  for recruiting is a  Soviet
cruise ship: two  weeks  at  sea, vodka, caviar, the  dolce  vita,  pleasant
company and the ability to talk without fearing the local police.
     If  the reader had  access  to real dossiers  on the secret  agents  of
spetsnaz he  would be disappointed and  probably shocked, because the agents
of spetsnaz bear no resemblance to the fine, upstanding, young and  handsome
heroes of spy films. Soviet military intelligence is looking for an entirely
different type of  person as a candidate for  recruitment. A  portrait of an
ideal  agent for spetsnaz  emerges something  like this:  a  man  of between
fifty-five  and sixty-five years of age who has never  served  in the  army,
never had  access to secret documents, does not carry or own a weapon, knows
nothing about hand-to-hand fighting, does not  possess any secret  equipment
and doesn't support the Communists, does not read the  newspapers, was never
in the Soviet  Union and has never met any  Soviet citizens, leads a lonely,
introspective  life, far from other people, and is by profession a forester,
fisherman, lighthouse-keeper, security  guard  or railwayman.  In many cases
such an  agent will be a  physical invalid. Spetsnaz  is also on the lookout
for women with roughly the same characteristics.
     If spetsnaz has such a person in its network, that means: a. that he is
certainly  not  under any  suspicion on the  part  of the  local  police  or
security services; b. that in the event of any enquiries being made  he will
be the last person to be suspected; c. that there  is practically nothing by
which  any  suspicions  could be  confirmed, which in  turn  means  that  in
peacetime  the agent is  almost  totally guaranteed against  the  danger  of
failure or arrest;  d.  that in  the event of war he will remain in the same
place as he was in peacetime and  not be taken  into the army or the  public
service under the wartime mobilisation.
     All this  gives the  spetsnaz  agent network  tremendous stability  and
vitality. There  are, of course, exceptions  to every rule, and in the rules
of intelligence gathering there are a lot of exceptions. You can come across
many  different kinds  of  people among the agents  of spetsnaz,  but  still
spetsnaz tries mainly to recruit people of just that type. What use are they
to the organisation?
     The answer is that  they  are  formidably  useful. The fact is that the
acts  of terrorism are carried out  in the main by the professional athletes
of  spetsnaz  who  have  been  excellently  trained  for handling  the  most
difficult  missions.  But the  spetsnaz professionals have a lot  of enemies
when they  get into  a  foreign  country: helicopters and  police dogs,  the
checking of documents at the roadside, patrols, even children playing in the
street who  miss very  little and understand  a lot. The spetsnaz  commandos
need  shelter where they can rest  for  a few days  in relative peace, where
they can leave their heavy equipment and cook their own food.
     So the principal task  of  spetsnaz agents is to prepare a safe  hiding
place in advance, long before the commandos arrive in the country. These are
some examples of hiding places prepared by spetsnaz agents. With GRU money a
pensioner who is actually a  spetsnaz agent buys a house on the outskirts of
a town, and close to a big  forest. In the house he builds, quite legally, a
nuclear shelter with electric  light, drains, water supply and  a  store  of
food. He then buys a car of a  semi-military  or military type, a Land Rover
for example, which is kept permanently in the garage of the house along with
a  good  store  of  petrol. With  that the agent's work  is done.  He  lives
quietly, makes use of his country house and car, and in addition is paid for
his services. He knows that at any moment he may have `guests' in his house.
But  that  doesn't  frighten  him.  In case of  arrest  he can  say that the
commando troops seized  him  as  a hostage and  made use of  his house,  his
shelter and car.
     Or, the owner of a car  dump takes  an old, rusty railway container and
drops it among the  hundreds of  scrap  cars and a few motorcycles.  For the
benefit  of  the few visitors to the  scrapyard who  come in search of spare
parts, the owner opens a little shop selling Coca-Cola, hot dogs, coffee and
sandwiches. He always  keeps a stock  of bottled mineral water, tinned fish,
meat and  vegetables. The  little shop  also  stocks  comprehensive  medical
supplies.
     Or perhaps the owner of a small firm buys a large, though old yacht. He
tells his friends that he dreams of making  a long journey under sail, which
is why the yacht always has a  lot of  stores aboard.  But he has no time to
make the trip;  what's more, the yacht is  in  need of repair which requires
both  time and money.  So  for the  moment  the old yacht  lies  there in  a
deserted bay among dozens of other abandoned yachts with peeling paint.
     Large numbers of such places of refuge have been  arranged. Places that
can be  used as shelters include caves, abandoned (or in some cases working)
mines,  abandoned industrial  plants, city sewers, cemeteries (especially if
they have  family vaults), old boats, railway  carriages and wagons,  and so
forth.  Any  place  can be adapted  as  a shelter for  the  use  of spetsnaz
terrorists. But the place must be very well studied and prepared in advance.
That is what the agents are recruited for.
     This is  not  their only  task.  After the arrival  of his `guests' the
agent can carry  out many of  their instructions: keeping an eye on what the
police are doing, guarding the  shelter and raising the  alarm in good time,
acting  as  a  guide, obtaining  additional  information  about  interesting
objects and people.  Apart from all that an agent may be recruited specially
to carry out  acts of  terrorism, in which case he may operate independently
under the supervision of one person from  the GRU, in a group of agents like
himself, or in collaboration with  the professionals  of  spetsnaz who  have
come from the Soviet Union.

        ___

     The  spetsnaz  agent who  is  recruited  to  provide  support  for  the
operations  of fighting groups in  the way I have described, by  acquiring a
house and/or transport feels he is quite safe.  The local police would  have
tremendous difficulty  trying  to  run him to earth. Even  if he were  to be
found  and  arrested it would be practically  impossible to prove his guilt.
But what the  agent does not know is that danger threatens him from spetsnaz
itself. Officers in the  GRU who are discontented with the Communist  regime
may, either as a mark of  protest or for other reasons, defect  to the West.
When they do, they are free  to identify agents,  including spetsnaz agents.
Equally, once he has carried out his act of terrorism, the spetsnaz commando
will destroy all traces  of its work and any  witnesses, including the agent
who protected or helped the group in the first place. A man who is recruited
as  an  agent to  back up a commando  group very  rarely realises what  will
happen to him afterwards.
     Thus if it is relatively easy to recruit  a man to act as a  `sleeper',
what about recruiting a foreigner  to act as a real terrorist,  prepared  to
commit murder, use  explosives and fire buildings? Surely that is much  more
difficult?
     The answer is that,  surprisingly, it is not. A spetsnaz officer out to
recruit agents for direct terrorist action has a wonderful base for his work
in the West. There  are a tremendous number of  people who are  discontented
and ready to protest against absolutely anything. And while millions protest
peacefully, some individuals will resort to any means to make their protest.
The spetsnaz  officer has only to find the malcontent who is ready to  go to
extremes.
     A man who  protests against the presence of  American  troops in Europe
and sprays slogans on walls is an interesting subject. If he not only paints
slogans but  is also  prepared to fire at an  American general, should he be
given the sub-machine gun or an RPG-7 grenade-launcher to  do the job, he is
an exceptionally interesting person. His goals tally perfectly with those of
the senior officers of the GRU.
     In France protesters fired an RPG-7 grenade-launcher at the reactor  of
a  nuclear power  station. Where  they got the Soviet-made weapon I  do  not
know. Perhaps  it was  just lying there at the  roadside. But  if  it  was a
spetsnaz officer who  had the good fortune to meet  those people and provide
them with their hardware, he would without further ado have been given a Red
Banner medal and promotion. The senior officers of the GRU have a particular
dislike  of   Western  nuclear  power  stations,  which  reduce  the  West's
dependence  on imported oil (including Soviet oil) and make it stronger  and
more independent. They are one of spetsnaz's most important targets.
     On another  occasion a  group  of  animal  rights  activists  in the UK
injected bars of chocolate  with  poison. If  spetsnaz  were able to contact
that group, and there  is every chance it  might, it would be extremely keen
(without, of course, mentioning its name)  to  suggest  to them a  number of
even  more  effective  ways  of  protesting.   Activists,   radicals,  peace
campaigners, green  party  members:  as  far  as the leaders of  the GRU are
concerned, these are like ripe  water-melons, green  on the outside, but red
on the inside -- and mouth-watering.
     So there  is a good base for recruiting. There  are enough discontented
people  in  the  West who  are ready not  only  to kill  others but  also to
sacrifice their own  lives for the sake of their own particular ideals which
spetsnaz  may  exploit.  The  spetsnaz  officer has only to  find  and  take
advantage of the malcontent who is ready to go to extremes.

        ___

     The spetsnaz network  of  agents has  much in common with international
terrorism, a common centre, for example -- yet they are different things and
must not be confused.  It  would be  foolhardy to  claim that  international
terrorism came  into being on orders from Moscow. But to claim that, without
Moscow's support, international terrorism would never have assumed the scale
it  has would  not  be  rash.  Terrorism  has been  born  in  a  variety  of
situations,  in various circumstances and in different  kinds of soil. Local
nationalism has  always been a potent source, and  the Soviet Union supports
it  in  any  form, just  as it offers concrete support to  extremist  groups
operating within  nationalist movements. Exceptions  are made, of course, of
the nationalist groups  within the Soviet Union and the countries under  its
influence.
     If groups  of extremists  emerge in areas where there is no sure Soviet
influence, you may be sure that the Soviet  Union will very shortly be their
best  friend.  In the GRU  alone there are two independent and very powerful
bodies dealing  with questions relating to extremists and terrorists. First,
there  is the 3rd Direction of the GRU which studies terrorist organisations
and ways of penetrating them. Then there  is the 5th Directorate which is in
charge of  all intelligence-gathering at  lower  levels,  including that  of
spetsnaz.
     The GRU's tactics toward  terrorists are simple: never  give  them  any
orders,  never   tell  them  what  to  do.   They  are  destroying   Western
civilisation: they  know how to do it, the argument goes, so let them get on
with it  unfettered  by petty  supervision. Among  them there are  idealists
ready  to die  for  their own  ideas. So  let  them die  for  them. The most
important thing is to  preserve their illusion that they are completely free
and independent.
     Moscow is an important centre  of international  terrorism, not because
it  is  from  Moscow  that instructions  are  issued, but  because  selected
terrorist groups or  organisations  which ask  for help  may  be given it if
little  risk  is attached  to  doing  so.  Moscow's  deep  involvement  with
terrorism is a serious political affair. One  `resistance  movement' has  to
have more  financial help,  another less. One  `Red Army'  must have  modern
weapons and  an unlimited supply of  ammunition,  another one will do better
with old weapons and  a limited supply of ammunition. One movement  is to be
recognised,  while  another  will  be  condemned  in words  but supported in
practice. `Independent' terrorists  give little thought to where  the  money
comes from  with  which  they travel  the countries of  the  world,  or  who
provides the Kalashnikov submachine-guns and the cartridges to go with them,
or who supplies the instructors who teach them and train them.
     But just look at the `independent'  Palestinians:  they virtually throw
their ammunition away.  And  if  one watches  a  film about  the fighting in
Afghanistan and then one  from the streets of Beirut the difference  is very
striking.  The Afghan resistance  fighters  count every round,  whereas  the
groups fighting each other in the streets of Beirut don't even bother to aim
when they fire;  they simply fire  into the air  in long bursts, although it
means they are wasting someone else's money. Whose money is it?
     When I  was beginning my  military service I was  taught to count every
round. Cartridges are metal and a lot of hard work. It is more difficult and
more expensive to make a cartridge than to make  a fountain pen. And another
reason for being careful with ammunition is so that you are never without it
at  a  critical moment.  Supplying an  army  with ammunition  is  a  complex
logistical problem. If the transport carrying ammunition arrives even  a few
minutes after you have spent  all your ammunition without thinking, then you
are dead.  But  there are no  such  problems  in  Beirut. Nobody  tells  the
conflicting groups what the ammunition  costs. Nobody tells them the cost of
the lives  they cut  off every  day.  Nobody  mentions the danger  that  the
regular supply of ammunition may be late.  The suppliers are certain that it
will not be late.

        ___

     The Soviet Union condemns the civil war in the Lebanon. But there is no
need  for it to condemn the  war. All it  has to  do  is hold  back the next
transport of ammunition, and war will cease.
     Apart  from  military and financial  support,  the  Soviet  Union  also
provides  the terrorists aid in the form of training.  Training centres have
been set  up in the Soviet Union for training  terrorists from a  number  of
different countries. Similar  centres have been  set up in the countries  of
Eastern Europe,  in  Cuba and elsewhere. I know  the centre  in Odessa  very
well.  Officially it belongs to the 10th  Chief  Directorate of the  General
Staff which deals with the export of weapons, sends Soviet military advisers
to foreign countries and trains foreigners to be fighters and terrorists. In
the early  1960s this  centre was  a  branch of the higher infantry officers
school. An intelligence  faculty was formed  in it for Soviet students, many
of whom  ended up in the  GRU and spetsnaz, while the remainder of the  huge
area, classrooms and living quarters, was given over entirely to the  centre
for training foreign fighters. When I was in Odessa most of the people under
training  were intended for work in black Africa. Not all  of them came from
Africa, quite a lot of  them were from Cuba, but that was where the majority
were destined. The difference between the training and the living conditions
of the Soviet and the foreign students was tremendous.
     The  foreigners  were  better  fed  and  wore  Soviet  officers'  field
uniforms, though  without any  badges  of  rank.  They  had  practically  no
theoretical  tuition  at  all.  But   their  practical  training  was   very
concentrated,  even by Soviet standards. For them there was  no shortage  of
ammunition. Shooting went on in their camp day and night.
     The foreigners were kept  in  strict isolation. The only  outsiders who
could see them were the  Soviet  students  and  then only through the barbed
wire. The total isolation  had a bad effect on some of the foreign students.
But  since  they could  not break out of  it,  the Cuban minister of defence
stepped in and ordered some girls to be  sent from Cuba  who were trained as
nurses for  partisan units at the  Odessa centre. It was interesting to note
that the soldiers  were under training for one year and the officers for two
years,  but the nurses' training lasted  ten years or more.  At  the end  of
their training the nurses were sent back to Cuba  and some younger ones were
sent  to  replace  them. There were no  more psychological  problems  at the
training centre.

        ___

     Foreigners  belonging to `liberation  movements'  who turn  up  in  the
Soviet  Union  are  not  generally  recruited  by  the  Soviet  intelligence
services.  Experience  has  shown that  the terrorist  who considers himself
independent  and  who kills people  because  of  his  own  beliefs  is  more
effective than the one who fights on the orders of other people. For his own
ideas  the  terrorist  will take  risks  and sacrifice his life,  but  he is
scarcely  likely  to do so  merely on  instructions  from foreigners. So why
recruit him?
     But  there  are  important  exceptions.   Every  terrorist  is  studied
carefully during  his training, and among them  will be noted the  potential
leaders  and the born rebels who will not submit to any authority.  Of equal
importance   are  the   students'   weaknesses  and   ambitions,  and  their
relationships with one another. Some time, many years ahead, one of them may
become an important  leader, but not one approved by Moscow, so it is  vital
to know in advance who his likely friends and enemies will be.
     As the students  are themselves studied during training, some emerge as
exceptions  among  the  crowd  and  as  likely  material  for   recruitment.
Recruitment  at  the  training centres is carried  on simultaneously by  two
different GRU  organisations. The 3rd Direction recruits informers, who will
subsequently remain inside the `national liberation movements' and will pass
on to the heads of the  GRU  the internal secrets of the movements. The  5th
Directorate of the GRU recruits  some of  the students  to  be  part of  the
spetsnaz network of agents. This is a  fairly complicated  process. Formally
the candidate remains in  his `liberation movement' and works there. In fact
he starts to operate on  instructions  from  the GRU. It is a very  delicate
situation and all possible steps are taken to protect  the reputation of the
USSR  in  case  of failure.  With  this  aim  in view the carefully selected
candidate, unaware of his position, is transferred to training in one of the
countries under Soviet influence. Recruitment then takes  place, but not  by
Soviet Intelligence, rather by the Intelligence service of one of the Soviet
satellite countries.
     The recruitment  of a full-blown terrorist  is a very different  matter
from the recruitment of an informer-agent.  The  terrorist has to go through
very  tough  training which  becomes a daily, and  a  nightly nightmare.  He
dreams of the training coming to an end: he yearns  for  the real thing. The
instructors talk to him and ask him what he  would  like, as a terrorist, to
do.  The terrorist tells them. The instructors then `think about  it'  and a
few days  later tell him  it is not possible. The  torture  of the  training
continues. Again the question of what he wants to do is raised, and again he
is turned down. Various  reasons  are given for refusing him: we value  your
life too highly to  send you on such a risky mission; such an act might have
unwanted  repercussions on your family, your comrades, and so  on. Thus  the
range  of choice  is gradually  narrowed down until the  terrorist  suggests
exactly what the  heads of Soviet  Military intelligence want.  They  `think
about it' for a few days and finally give their agreement in such a way that
it does not appear to be something wanted by the GRU but rather a compromise
or a concession to the terrorist: if he really thinks it necessary to do it,
no obstacles will be put in his way.
     I have  of course simplified a  process which  is  in  practice a  very
complicated affair.
     The reward for the GRU is that a terrorist doing work for spetsnaz does
not, in the great majority of cases, suspect he is being used. He is utterly
convinced that  he is acting independently, of his own  will and by  his own
choice. The GRU does not leave its signature or his fingerprints around.
     Even  in cases where it is not a  question of individual terrorists but
of  experienced  leaders   of   terrorist   organisations,  the  GRU   takes
extraordinary  steps to ensure  that  not  only  all  outsiders but even the
terrorist leader himself should not realise  the extent of his subordination
to spetsnaz and consequently to the  GRU. The leader of the terrorists has a
vast field of action and a wide choice. But there are operations and acts of
terrorism on which spetsnaz will spend any amount of money, will provide any
kind  of weapon, will help in obtaining passports  and will organise  hiding
places. But  there are also terrorist acts for  which spetsnaz has no money,
no  weapons, no reliable people  and no hiding  places.  The  leader  of the
terrorists  is  at complete liberty  to choose  the  mission he  wants,  but
without weapons, money and other  forms  of support his freedom to choose is
suddenly severely curtailed.

--------

      Chapter 9. Weapons and Equipment



     The standard  issue of weapons to a spetsnaz is a  sub-machine gun, 400
rounds   of  ammunition,  a  knife,  and  six  hand  grenades  or  a   light
single-action grenade-launcher. During a drop by  parachute the  sub-machine
gun is carried in such  a  way as not to  interfere with  the  main (or  the
reserve)  parachute opening correctly and promptly,  and  not  to injure the
parachute on landing. But the large number of fastenings  make it impossible
for the parachutist  to use the gun immediately after landing. So he  should
not be left defenceless at  that moment, the parachutist also carries a  P-6
silent  pistol. After  my  escape  to  the  West I described  this pistol to
Western  experts and was met  with a certain scepticism. Today a  great deal
that I told  the experts  has been confirmed,  and examples  of  the  silent
pistol have been found in  Afghanistan. (Jane's Defence Weekly has published
some  excellent photographs and a  description  of this unusual weapon.) For
noiseless  shooting  over big distances  PBS  silencers  are  used  and some
soldiers carry them on their submachine guns.
     Officers,  radio-operators and cypher  clerks  have a  smaller  set  of
weapons: a short-barrelled sub-machine gun (AKR) of 160 rounds, a pistol and
a knife.
     Apart from personal weapons a spetsnaz group carries collective weapons
in the  form of RPG-16D  grenade-launchers, Strela-2 ground-to-air missiles,
mines for various  purposes,  plastic explosive,  snipers' rifles  and other
weapons. The unit learns  how to handle group weapons but does not keep them
permanently with it: group  weapons are held in the spetsnaz stores, and the
quantity needed by the unit is determined before  each operation. Operations
can often be carried out simply with each man's personal weapons.
     A group which sets  out on an operation with only personal weapons  can
receive the group weapons it needs later, normally by parachute. And in case
of pursuit a group may abandon not only the group  weapons but some of their
personal weapons as well.  For  most  soldiers, to  lose their weapons is an
offence  punished  by a  stretch  in a  penal battalion. But spetsnaz, which
enjoys  special trust  and  operates  in quite  unusual conditions,  has the
privilege of resolving the dilemma for itself  although  every case  is,  of
course, later investigated. The commander and his deputy have to demonstrate
that the situation really was critical.

        ___

     Unlike the airborne and the air assault forces, spetsnaz does not  have
any  heavy weapons  like artillery,  mortars or  BMD fighting  vehicles. But
`does not have' does not mean `does not use'.
     On landing in  enemy  territory  a group may  begin  its  operation  by
capturing  a  car  or armoured  troop-carrier belonging  to the  enemy.  Any
vehicle, including one with a red cross on it, is fair game for spetsnaz. It
can  be used  for a  variety of purposes:  for getting quickly away from the
drop zone, for example, or for transporting the group's mobile base, or even
for mounting the assault on an especially important target. In the course of
exercises on Soviet territory spetsnaz groups have frequently captured tanks
and used them for attacking targets. An ideal situation  is considered to be
when the enemy uses tanks to  guard especially  important installations, and
spetsnaz captures one or several of them and immediately attacks the target.
In that case there is no need for a clumsy slow-moving tank to make the long
trip to its target.
     Many other types of enemy weapons, including mortars and artillery, can
be  used as heavy armament.  The situation may arise in  the course of a war
where  a  spetsnaz  group  operating  on its own  territory will  obtain the
enemy's  heavy  weapons  captured  in  battle,  then  get  through  to enemy
territory and operate  in his rear  in the guise of genuine fighting  units.
This trick was widely used by the Red Army in the Civil War.
     The  Soviet high command even takes steps to acquire foreign weapons in
peacetime. In  April 1985 four businessmen were arrested in  the  USA. Their
business was officially  dealing  in  arms.  Their illegal business was also
dealing  in arms, and they had  tried to ship 500 American automatic rifles,
100,000 rounds of ammunition and 400 night-vision sights to countries of the
Soviet bloc.
     Why should the Soviet Union  need  American weapons in such quantities?
To help the national liberation armies which it  sponsors? For  that purpose
the  leadership  has  no  hesitation  in  providing  Kalashnikov automatics,
simpler and cheaper, with no problems of ammunition supply. Perhaps the  500
American  rifles  were for studying and  copying?  But the Soviet Union  has
captured M-16 rifles  from many sources, Vietnam for  one. They have already
been studied down  to the last detail. And there is no point in copying them
since,  in the opinion of the Soviet high command, the Kalashnikov meets all
its requirements.
     It is difficult to  think of any other reason for such a deal than that
they were for equipping spetsnaz groups. Not for all of them, of course, but
for  the  groups  of  professional  athletes, especially those  who  will be
operating  where the M-16 rifle  is widely used and where consequently there
will be plenty of ammunition for it to be found.
     The  quantity of rifles, sights  and rounds of  ammunition  is  easy to
explain:  100  groups of  five  men  each,  in  which  everybody  except the
radio-operator has a  night-sight (four to  a group);  for each rifle half a
day's requirements  (200 rounds),  the  rest  to be taken  from  the  enemy.
American sights are used mainly because batteries and other essential spares
can be obtained from the enemy.
     This is clearly not  the only  channel through which standard  American
arms  and  ammunition are obtained. We know about  the  businessmen who have
been arrested. There are no doubt others who have not been arrested yet.

        ___

     The weapons issued  to spetsnaz are very varied, covering a wide range,
from the  guitar  string  (used  for  strangling someone  in  an attack from
behind) to small portable nuclear changes with a TNT  equivalent of anything
from 800 to 2000 tons. The spetsnaz arsenal includes swiftly acting poisons,
chemicals and bacteria.  At  the  same time the mine  remains the  favourite
weapon of spetsnaz.  It is not by chance that the predecessors of the modern
spetsnaz  men bore the  proud title of guards minelayers. Mines are employed
at all stages of a group's operations.  Immediately  after a landing,  mines
may be  laid  where the parachutes  are hidden and later the group  will lay
mines along the roads  and paths by which they get away  from the enemy. The
mines  very widely  employed by spetsnaz  in the  1960s  and  1970s were the
MON-50,  MON-100,  MON-200  and  the  MON-300.  The  MON  is  a  directional
anti-personnel mine,  and the  figure indicates the  distance the  fragments
fly. They  do not fly  in  different directions but in a close bunch  in the
direction  the minelayer aims them.  It is a terrible weapon, very effective
in a variety  of  situations.  For  example,  if a  missile  installation is
discovered and it is not possible to get close to it, a  MON-300 can be used
to blow  it up. They are  at their most effective if the  explosion is aimed
down a street, road,  forest  path,  ravine, gorge or valley.  MON mines are
often laid so that the  target  is covered  by  cross fire from two or  more
directions.
     There are many other kinds of mines used by spetsnaz, each of which has
been  developed  for a special purpose:  to  blow up  a  railway bridge,  to
destroy an oil storage tank (and  at the same time ignite the contents), and
to  blow up constructions of cement, steel, wood, stone and other materials.
It is a  whole science  and a real art.  The spetsnaz soldier has  a perfect
command  of it  and knows how to blow up very  complicated objects  with the
minimal use  of explosive. In case of  need he knows how  to make explosives
from  material lying around. I  have seen  a spetsnaz  officer  make several
kilograms of a sticky brown paste out of the most inoffensive and apparently
non-explosive materials in about an hour. He also made the detonator himself
out of the most ordinary things that  a spetsnaz soldier carries with him --
an electric  torch, a  razor blade which he  made into  a spring,  a  box of
matches  and  finally the  bullet  from a  tracer  cartridge. The  resulting
mechanism worked perfectly. In some cases simpler and more accessible things
can  be used -- gas and  oxygen  balloons  of paraffin with  the addition of
filings of light  metals.  A  veteran  of this  business,  Colonel Starinov,
recalls in his memoirs making a detonator out of one matchbox.

        ___

     On the  subject  of  mines, we must mention a terrible  spetsnaz weapon
known as  the Strela-Blok. This weapon was used in  the  second half  of the
1960s and the first half of the 1970s. It  is quite possible  that by now it
has been very substantially improved.  In a sense it can  be described as an
anti-aircraft mine,  because  it  operates on the same principle as the mine
laid at the  side of  a  road which acts against a  passing  vehicle. It  is
related to mines which are based on portable grenade-launchers which fire at
the side of a tank or an armoured personnel carrier.
     The Strela-Blok is an ordinary Soviet Strela-2 portable missile (a very
exact copy of the American Red Eye). A spetsnaz group carries one or several
of these missiles with it. In the area  of  a major airfield the launch tube
is attached  to  a tall tree  (or the  roof  of a building,  a  tall mast, a
hayrick)  and  camouflaged.  The missile  is usually installed  at  a  short
distance from the end  of the runway. That done, the group leaves  the area.
The missile is launched automatically. A clockwork mechanism operates first,
allowing the group to retire to a safe distance, then, when the set time has
run out  (it could be anything from  an hour to several days) a  very simple
sound  detector is switched on  which reacts  to  the  noise of an  aircraft
engine of a  particular power. So  long  as the  engine noise is  increasing
nothing happens (it means the aircraft is coming nearer), but as soon as the
noise  decreases the mechanism fires.  The infra-red  warhead reacts to  the
heat radiated by the engine, follows the aircraft and catches up with it.
     Imagine yourself to  be the officer commanding  an  aircraft  base. One
plane (perhaps with a nuclear bomb on board) is shot down by a missile as it
takes  off.  You cancel  all flights and despatch your people  to  find  the
culprits.  They of course find  nobody.  Flights are resumed  and your  next
plane is shot down on take-off. What will you do then? What will you  do  if
the  group  has  set  up five  Strela-Blok  missiles  around  the  base  and
anti-infantry mines on the approaches to them?  How do  you  know that there
are only five missiles?

        ___

     Another very effective spetsnaz  weapon  is the RPO-A flamethrower.  It
weighs eleven kilograms and has a single action. Developed in the first half
of the 1970s, it is substantially superior to any flame-throwers produced at
that time in any  other  country. The principal  difference lies in the fact
that the  foreign  models of the time threw a stream of fire  at  a range of
about thirty metres, and a considerable part of the fuel was burnt up in the
trajectory.
     The RPO-A,  however, fires not a stream but a capsule, projected out of
a lightweight barrel by a powder  charge. The  inflammable mixture flies  to
the target  in  a capsule  and  bursts into flame  only when it strikes  the
target. The RPO-A has a range of more than 400 metres, and the effectiveness
of one shot is equal to that of the explosion of a 122 mm howitzer shell. It
can be used with special effectiveness against targets vulnerable to fire --
fuel stores,  ammunition dumps,  and  missiles and aircraft standing  on the
ground.

        ___

     A more powerful spetsnaz weapon is the GRAD-V multiple rocket-launcher,
a system of firing  in  salvos developed for the airborne forces. There  the
weapon can be mounted on the chassis of a GAZ-66 truck.  It has 12 launching
tubes which fire  jet-propelled shells. But apart  from  the vehicle-mounted
version, GRAD-V  is  produced  in  a portable version.  In case of  need the
airborne units are issued  with separate tubes and the  shells  to  go  with
them. The tube is set up on the ground in the simplest of bases. It is aimed
in the right direction and fired. Several separate tubes  are usually  aimed
at one target  and fired at  practically the same time. Fired from a vehicle
its accuracy is very considerable, but  from the ground it is  not so great.
But in either case the effect is very considerable. The GRAD-V is largely  a
weapon  for  firing  to  cover  a  wide  area  and  its  main  targets  are:
communications centres,  missile batteries,  aircraft parks  and  other very
vulnerable targets.
     The airborne forces use both versions of the GRAD-V. Spetsnaz uses only
the second, portable version.  Sometimes, to attack a very important target,
for example a submarine in its berth,  a major spetsnaz unit may fire GRAD-V
shells simultaneously from several dozen or even hundreds of tubes.

        ___

     In spetsnaz  the  most up-to-date weapons  exist  side by  side  with a
weapon which has  long  been  forgotten  in all other armies or relegated to
army museums.  One such weapon is the crossbow. However amusing  the  reader
may find this, the crossbow is in  fact a terrible weapon which  can put  an
arrow right through  a  man at a great distance  and  with  great  accuracy.
Specialists believe  that, at the time when the crossbow was competing  with
the musket,  the  musket came off best only because it made such a deafening
noise that this  had a greater effect on the enemy than  the soft whistle of
an arrow from a crossbow. But in speed of  firing,  accuracy and reliability
the crossbow was superior  to the  musket, smaller  in size and  weight, and
killed people just  as surely as  the musket. Because it made no noise  when
fired  it did  not  have  the same effect as  a  simultaneous salvo  from  a
thousand muskets.
     But that  noiseless action  is exactly  what  spetsnaz needs today. The
modern crossbow is, of course, very different in appearance and construction
from the crossbows of  previous centuries.  It has been  developed using the
latest technology. It is  aimed  by means of optical and thermal sights of a
similar quality to those used on modern snipers' rifles. The arrows are made
with  the benefit of the latest research in ballistics and aerodynamics. The
bow itself is a very elegant affair, light, reliable and convenient. To make
it easy to carry it folds up.
     The crossbow  is not a  standard weapon  in spetsnaz, although enormous
attention is given in the athletic training units to training men  to handle
the weapon. In  case of necessity a spetsnaz group may be issued with one or
two  crossbows to  carry out some special  mission in which a man  has to be
killed without making  any  noise at  all and in darkness at a  distance  of
several  dozen metres.  It is true  that the  crossbow  can  in  no  way  be
considered a rival to the  sniper's rifle. The  Dragunov sniper's rifle is a
marvellous standard spetsnaz weapon. But if you fit a silencer to a sniper's
rifle it greatly reduces its accuracy and range. For shooting accurately and
noiselessly, sniper's rifles have been built with a `heavy barrel', in which
the  silencer is an organic part  of  the weapon. This is  a wonderful and a
reliable weapon. Nevertheless the officers  commanding the GRU consider that
a spetsnaz commander must have a very  wide collection of weapons from which
he can  choose for  a particular  situation. It is possible, indeed certain,
that special situations  will arise, in which the commander preparing for an
operation will want to choose a rather unusual weapon.

        ___

     The most frightening, demoralising opponent of the spetsnaz soldier has
always  been and always will be the  dog. No electronic devices and no enemy
firepower has  such an effect on  his morale as the appearance of dogs.  The
enemy's dogs  always appear  at  the  most  awkward  moment,  when  a  group
exhausted by a long trek is enjoying a  brief uneasy  sleep, when their legs
are totally worn out and their ammunition is used up.
     Surveys conducted among  soldiers,  sergeants and officers  in spetsnaz
produce the same answer again and again: the last thing they want to come up
against is the enemy's dogs.
     The  heads of the GRU have  conducted some far-reaching researches into
this question and come to the conclusion that the best way to deal with dogs
is to use dogs oneself. On the southeastern outskirts of Moscow there is the
Central Red  Star  school  of military dog training,  equipped with enormous
kennels.
     The  Central  Military  school trains specialists  and rears and trains
dogs for many different purposes in the Soviet Army, including spetsnaz. The
history of using dogs in the Red Army is a rich  and very varied one. In the
Second World War the Red Army used 60,000 of  its own dogs in the  fighting.
This was possible, of course, only  because of the existence  of the  Gulag,
the enormous system of concentration camps in which the rearing and training
of dogs  had been organised on an exceptionally  high level in terms of both
quantity and quality.
     To the figure of  60,000 army  dogs  had  to be  added an unknown,  but
certainly enormous,  number of  transport dogs.  Transport dogs were used in
winter time (and throughout the year in the north) for delivering ammunition
supplies to the front line, evacuating the wounded and similar purposes. The
service  dogs  included only those  which worked,  not  in  a  pack  but  as
individuals,  carrying out different, precisely defined  functions for which
each  one  had been  trained.  The  Red Army's  dogs had respected  military
trades:  razvedka; searching for  wounded on the  battle  field; delivery of
official  messages. The dogs were  used by  the  airborne troops and by  the
guards minelayers  (now spetsnaz) for  security  purposes. But the trades in
which the Red Army's dogs were used on the largest scale were mine detection
and destroying tanks.
     Even as early as  1941 special service units (Spets sluzhba) started to
be  formed  for  combating the  enemy's  tanks.  Each unit consisted of four
companies with  126  dogs in  each company, making  504 dogs  in each  unit.
Altogether during the war  there  were  two special service regiments formed
and 168 independent units, battalions, companies and platoons.
     The dogs selected for the special service units were strong and healthy
and possessed plenty of stamina. Their training was very simple. First, they
were not fed for several days, and then they began to receive food near some
tanks: the meat was given to them from  the  tank's lower hatch. So the  dog
learned  to go  beneath  the tank to be  fed.  The training sessions quickly
became  more  elaborate.  The  dogs were  unleashed  in  the face  of  tanks
approaching from  quite considerable distances and taught to get  under  the
tank, not from the front but from the rear. As soon as the dog was under the
tank, it stopped and  the dog was fed. Before a battle the dog would not  be
fed.  Instead, an  explosive  charge  of between 4 and  4.6 kg  with  a  pin
detonator was attached to it. It was then sent under the enemy tanks.
     Anti-tank dogs  were  employed in the biggest battles,  before  Moscow,
before Stalingrad,  and at Kursk. The dogs destroyed  a sufficient number of
tanks for the survivors to be considered worthy of the honour of taking part
in the victory parade in the Red Square.
     The war experience  was  carefully analysed and taken into account. The
dog  as a faithful servant  of man in war has  not  lost its importance, and
spetsnaz realises that a  lot better than any  other branch  of  the  Soviet
Army. Dogs perform a lot of tasks in the modern spetsnaz. There is plenty of
evidence  that spetsnaz  has used them in  Afghanistan  to  carry  out their
traditional tasks -- protecting groups from surprise attack, seeking out the
enemy, detecting mines, and helping in the interrogation  of captured Afghan
resistance  fighters. They are just as mobile  as the men  themselves, since
they can be dropped by parachute in special soft containers.
     In  the  course  of  a  war  in  Europe spetsnaz  will  use  dogs  very
extensively  for carrying out the same functions, and for one  other task of
exceptional importance -- destroying  the enemy's nuclear  weapons. It is  a
great  deal easier  to teach  a  dog  to get up to  a missile or an aircraft
unnoticed than  it is to get it  to go under a roaring, thundering  tank. As
before, the  dog  would carry a charge weighing about  4  kg, but charges of
that weight are today much more powerful than they were in the last war, and
the detonators  are incomparably more  sophisticated and foolproof than they
were then. Detonators have  been  developed for this  kind of  charge  which
detonate only on contact with metal but do not go  off on accidental contact
with  long grass,  branches or  other objects. The dog  is an  exceptionally
intelligent animal  which with  proper  training quickly  becomes capable of
learning to seek out, identify  correctly and attack important targets. Such
targets  include   complicated  electronic  equipment,  aerials,   missiles,
aircraft, staff cars, cars  carrying VIPs, and occasionally individuals. All
of this makes the spetsnaz dog a frightening and dangerous enemy.
     Apart  from everything else, the presence of dogs with a spetsnaz group
appreciably raises the morale of the officers and the  men.  Some especially
powerful and vicious dogs  are trained for one purpose alone -- to guard the
group and to destroy the enemy's dogs if they appear.

        ___

     In discussing  spetsnaz weapons  we must  mention  also the  `invisible
weapon'  --  sambo. Sambo is a  kind  of fighting  without  rules  which was
originated in the Soviet Union in the 1930s and has since been substantially
developed and improved.
     The  originator of sambo was  B. S.  Oshchepkov, an outstanding Russian
sportsman. Before  the  Revolution  he  visited Japan where he  learnt judo.
Oshchepkov became a black belt and was a  personal  friend of  the  greatest
master  of  this form  of  fighting,  Jigaro  Kano,  and others.  During the
Revolution Oshchepkov returned to Russia and worked as  a trainer in special
Red Army units.
     After  the Civil War Oshchepkov was  made senior instructor in  the Red
Army in various forms of unarmed combat.  He worked out a  series of ways in
which a man could attack or defend himself against one or  several opponents
armed  with a variety of weapons.  The new  system was based  on karate  and
judo, but Oshchepkov moved  further and further  away from the traditions of
the Japanese and  Chinese masters and created new tricks and combinations of
his own.
     Oshchepkov  took the  view that  one had to get  rid of all  artificial
limitations and  rules.  In real combat  nobody  observes any rules,  so why
introduce  them  artifically  at  training  sessions  and  so  penalise  the
sportsmen?  Oshchepkov firmly rejected all  the noble rules of  chivalry and
permitted his pupils  to  employ  any  tricks  and rules.  In  order that  a
training session should not  become  a  bloodbath Oshchepkov instructed  his
pupils only  to  imitate some  of  the more violent holds although  in  real
combat they were permitted. Oshchepkov brought his system of unarmed  combat
up to date. He invented ways of fighting opponents who were armed,  not with
Japanese bamboo sticks, but with more familiar weapons -- knives, revolvers,
knuckle-dusters, rifles with and without bayonets, metal bars and spades. He
also  perfected responses  to various combat combinations -- one with a long
spade, the other  with a short one; one with a spade, the other with a  gun;
one with a metal bar, the other with a piece of rope; one with an axe, three
unarmed; and so forth.
     As a  result of  its  rapid development the new style of combat won the
right  to  independent  existence and its  own name -- sambo  -- which is an
abbreviation of the Russian for `self-defence without weapons'  (samooborona
bez oruzhiya). The reader should not be misled by the word `defence'. In the
Soviet  Union  the word `defence' has  always  been  understood in a  rather
special way. Pravda  formulated the idea  succinctly before the Second World
War: `The best form of defence is rapid attack until the enemy is completely
destroyed.'1

     1 Pravda, 14 August 1939.

     Today sambo  is one of the compulsory features in the training of every
spetsnaz fighting man. It is one of the most popular spectator sports in the
Soviet Army.  It is not  only in  the Army,  of course, that  they engage in
sambo, but the  Soviet Army always comes out on top. Take, for  example, the
championship for  the prize awarded by the magazine  Sovetsky  Voin in 1985.
This is a very important championship in which sportsmen from many different
clubs compete. But as early as  the quarter finals, of the eight men left in
the contest one  was from the Dinamo club (an MVD lieutenant), one  from the
mysterious Zenit club, and the rest were from ZSKA, the Soviet Army club.
     The words `without weapons' in  the  name sambo should not mislead  the
reader. Sambo permits the use of any objects that can be used in a fight, up
to revolvers and  sub-machine-guns. It may be  said that  a hammer is  not a
weapon, and that is true if the  hammer is in the  hands of an inexperienced
person. But in  the hands of a master it becomes a terrible  weapon. An even
more frightful weapon  is a spade in the  hands of a skilled fighter. It was
with the Soviet Army spade that we began this book. Ways of using it are one
of the dramatic elements of sambo. A spetsnaz soldier can kill people with a
spade at a distance of several metres as easily, freely and silently as with
a P-6 gun.
     There are two sides to sambo: sporting sambo and battle sambo. Sambo as
a sport  is just two  men  without weapons,  restricted by set rules. Battle
sambo is what we have described above. There is plenty of evidence that many
of  the  holds  in battle  sambo  are  not  so  much secret  as  of  limited
application. Only in special teaching institutions, like the Dinamo Army and
Zenit clubs, are these holds taught. They are  needed only by those directly
involved in actions connected  with  the defence  and  consolidation  of the
regime.

        ___

     The spetsnaz  naval brigades are much better equipped technically  than
those operating on  land, for good  reasons.  A fleet always had and  always
will have much more horsepower per man than an army. A man can move over the
earth simply using his muscles, but he will not get  far swimming in the sea
with  his  muscles alone. Consequently, even  at the level  of  the ordinary
fighting  man  there  is  a  difference in the equipment of  naval units and
ground forces. An  ordinary  rank and  file  swimmer in the spetsnaz may  be
issued  with a relatively small apparatus  enabling him  to  swim  under the
water at a speed of up to 15 kilometres an hour for several hours at a time.
Apart from such individual sets  there is  also apparatus for  two or  three
men, built  on the pattern of an ordinary torpedo. The swimmers sit on it as
if  on  horseback.  And  in addition to  this  light  underwater  apparatus,
extensive use is made of midget submarines.
     The  Soviet Union  began  intensive  research  into  the development of
midget submarines in the  middle of  the 1930s. As usual,  the same task was
presented  to several  groups of designers at  the same time, and  there was
keen competition between  them. In 1936 a government commission studied four
submissions: the Moskito,  the  Blokha,  and the  APSS and Pigmei.  All four
could be transported by  small freighters or naval vessels. At that time the
Soviet Union had  completed  development work on its K-class submarines, and
there  was a  plan that  each  K-class submarine should be able to carry one
light  aircraft or one midget submarine.  At the same  time experiments were
also  being carried out  for the  purpose  of assessing  the possibility  of
transporting another design of midget submarine  (similar to the APSS)  in a
heavy bomber.
     In 1939 the Soviet Union put into production the M-400 midget submarine
designed by the designer of the `Flea' prototype. The M-400 was a mixture of
a submarine and a torpedo boat.  It could stay for a  long time under water,
then surface and  attack an enemy at  very high  speed like  a  fast torpedo
boat. The  intention  was also to use  it  in another way, closing in on the
enemy at great speed  like a torpedo boat, then  submerging and attacking at
close quarters like an ordinary submarine.
     Among the  trophies of war were the Germans' own midget  submarines and
plans  for  the  future, all  of  which  were  very  widely used  by  Soviet
designers. Interest in  German projects has not declined. In 1976 there were
reports concerning  a  project  for  a  German  submarine  of only  90  tons
displacement. Soviet military intelligence then started a hunt for the plans
of this vessel and for information about the people who had designed them.
     It should never be thought that interest in foreign weapons is dictated
by the  Soviet  Union's  technical backwardness. The Soviet  Union has  many
talented designers who have often performed  genuine technical miracles.  It
is simply that the West  always uses its  own  technical ideas, while Soviet
engineers use  their own  and other people's. In  the Soviet Union in recent
years remarkable  types of weapons  have  been  developed, including  midget
submarines with crews of from  one to  five men. The spetsnaz naval brigades
have several  dozen  midget submarines,  which may not seem to be very many,
but it is more than all other countries have between them. Side by side with
the usual projects intensive work  is  being done on the  creation of hybrid
equipment which will combine  the qualities of a submarine and an underwater
tractor.  The  transportation  of  midget  submarines  is  carried   out  by
submarines of larger  displacement, fighting  ships  and also ships from the
fishing fleet. In the 1960s in the  Caspian  Sea the  trials took place of a
heavy glider for transporting a midget submarine. The result of the trial is
not known. If such  a glider has been built then  in the event of war we can
expect to see midget submarines appear in the  most  unexpected places,  for
example in the Persian Gulf, which is  so vital to the West, even before the
arrival of  Soviet  troops and the  Navy. In the 1970s  the Soviet Union was
developing a hydroplane which,  after landing on water,  could  be submerged
several metres below water. I do not know the results of this work.

        ___

     Naval spetsnaz can be very dangerous. Even in peacetime it is much more
active  than  the   spetsnaz   brigades   in  the   land   forces.  This  is
understandable, because spetsnaz in the land forces can  operate only in the
territory  of the  Soviet Union and its satellites and in Afghanistan, while
the naval brigades have an enormous field of operations in the international
waters  of the world's oceans  and sometimes in  the  territorial  waters of
sovereign states.
     In  the conduct of military  operations  the midget  submarine can be a
very unpleasant  weapon for the  enemy.  It is  capable of  penetrating into
places  in which  the ordinary ship  cannot  operate.  The  construction  of
several midget  submarines  may be  cheaper  than  the construction  of  one
medium-sized submarine, while the detection of several midget submarines and
their  destruction can be  a very much more difficult task for an enemy than
the hunt for the destruction of one medium-sized submarine.
     The midget submarine is a sort of mobile base for divers. The submarine
and the divers become a single weapons system which can be used with success
against both seaborne and land targets.
     The  spetsnaz  seaborne brigades  can  in  a  number  of  cases  be  an
irreplaceable weapon  for the Soviet high command. Firstly, they can be used
for clearing the way for a whole Soviet fleet, destroying or  putting out of
action  minefields and  acoustic  and other detection systems of the  enemy.
Secondly, they can be used against powerful shore-based enemy defences. Some
countries  -- Sweden and Norway for example -- have built  excellent coastal
shelters  for their ships. In those shelters the ships are in no danger from
many kinds  of Soviet  weapon, including some nuclear ones. To  discover and
put  out of action such  shelters  will be one  of spetsnaz's most important
tasks. Seaborne spetsnaz can also be used against  bridges, docks, ports and
underwater  tunnels of the  enemy.  Even  more  dangerous  may  be  spetsnaz
operations against  the most  expensive and  valuable  ships -- the aircraft
carriers, cruisers, nuclear submarines, floating bases for submarines, ships
carrying missiles and nuclear warheads, and against command ships.
     In the course of a war many communications satellites will be destroyed
and radio links will be broken off through the explosion of  nuclear weapons
in outer space. In that case  an enormous number of messages will have to be
transmitted  by underground  and underwater cable. These cables  are a  very
tempting target for spetsnaz. Spetsnaz can either destroy or make use of the
enemy's underwater cables, passively (i.e. listening in on them) or actively
(breaking into the cable  and transmitting false  messages).  In order to be
able to do  this  during a war  the naval  brigades of spetsnaz  are busy in
peacetime  seeking out  underwater  cables in international  waters in  many
parts of the world.

        ___

     The presence of Soviet midget submarines has been  recorded  in  recent
years  in the  Baltic,  Black, Mediterranean, Tyrrhenian and Caribbean seas.
They  have  been operating in the Atlantic  not far  from Gibraltar.  It  is
interesting to note that for this `scientific' work the Soviet Navy used not
only the manned  submarines  of  the  Argus  class  but  also  the automatic
unmanned submarines of the Zvuk class.
     Unmanned  submarines are the  weapon  of the future, although they  are
already in use in spetsnaz units today. An unmanned submarine can be of very
small  dimensions, because modern  technology  makes  it possible  to reduce
considerably  the size  and weight of  the necessary  electronic  equipment.
Equally,  an unmanned submarine  does not need a supply of air and can  have
any number of bulkheads  for greater stability and  can  raise  its internal
pressure to  any level, so that it can  operate at any  depths. Finally, the
loss of such a vessel does not affect people's morale, and therefore greater
risks can  be taken with it in peace and  war. It can penetrate  into places
where  the  captain  of an ordinary ship  would never  dare to go.  Even the
capture  of  such  a  submarine by an  enemy  does  not  involve  such major
political consequences as would the seizure of a Soviet manned  submarine in
the  territorial  waters of  another  state.  At  present,  Soviet  unmanned
automatic submarines and other underwater  equipment  operate in conjunction
with manned surface ships and submarines.  It is quite possible that for the
foreseeable future these tactics  will be continued, because there has to be
a man somewhere nearby. Even so, the  unmanned automatic submarines make  it
possible  substantially to increase the spetsnaz potential.  It is perfectly
easy for a  Soviet ship with  a crew  to remain  innocently in international
waters while an unmanned submarine  under its control is penetrating into an
enemy's territorial waters.

        ___

     Apart from manned and unmanned submarines spetsnaz has for some decades
now  been  paying enormous attention to `live  submarines'  -- dolphins. The
Soviet Union has an enormous scientific centre on the Black Sea for studying
the behaviour of dolphins. Much of the centre's work is wrapped in the thick
shroud of official secrecy.
     From  ancient  times  the  dolphin  has  delighted  man  by  its  quite
extraordinary abilities. A dolphin can easily dive to a depth of 300 metres;
its  hearing range is seventy  times  that of  a  human  being; its brain is
surprisingly well  developed and similar  to  the human brain. Dolphins  are
very easy to tame and train.
     The  use of dolphins  by  spetsnaz  could  widen  their operations even
further,  using  them to accompany swimmers in  action  and warning them  of
danger; guarding units from an enemy's underwater commandos; hunting for all
kinds of  objects under water -- enemy  submarines, mines, underwater cables
and pipelines; and  the dolphin could be  used to carry out independent acts
of  terrorism: attacking important targets with an explosive charge attached
to it, or destroying enemy personnel with the aid of knives, needles or more
complicated weapons attached to its body.

--------

      Chapter 10. Battle Training



     It was a cold, grey day, with a  gusty wind blowing  and ragged  clouds
sweeping across the sky.  The deputy chief of the spetsnaz department,  17th
Army, and I were standing near an  old railway bridge. Many years previously
they  had built  a railway  line  there, but for some  reason  it  had  been
abandoned half-built. There remained only the bridge  across leaden-coloured
water. It seemed enormously high up. Around  us was a vast emptiness, forest
covering enormous spaces,  where you were more likely to meet a bear  than a
man.
     A spetsnaz competition was in  progress.  The lieutenant-colonel  and I
were umpires. The route being covered by  the competitors  was many  tens of
kilometres long. Soldiers, sodden  with the rain and  red in the face, laden
with weapons and equipment, were trying to cover the route  in the course of
a few days  --  running,  quick-marching, running  again. Their  faces  were
covered with  a dirty growth of beard. They  carried no  food  and got their
water from the streams and lakes. In addition there were many unpleasant and
unforeseen obstacles for them on the way.
     At our  control point, orange arrows told  the  soldiers  to  cross the
bridge. In the middle of the bridge another arrow pointed to the handrail at
the edge. A soldier lagging a long way behind his group ran onto the bridge.
His tiredness kept his head down, so he ran to the middle of the bridge, and
then a little further before he came to a sharp halt. He turned back and saw
the arrow pointing to the edge. He  looked over the  rail  and saw the  next
arrow on a marshy island, some  way away  and overgrown  with reeds.  It was
huge and orange, but only just visible in the distance.  The soldier let out
a whistle  of concern. He clambered onto  the  rail with all his weapons and
equipment, let out a violent curse and jumped. As he dropped,  he also tried
to  curse  his  fate and  spetsnaz  in good  soldier's language, but the cry
turned  into a long drawn-out howl.  He hit  the black freezing water with a
crash  and for  a long time did not  reappear. Finally his head emerged from
the water. It  was late autumn and the  water was icy cold.  But the soldier
set off swimming for the distant island.
     At our control  point,  where one after the other the  soldiers plunged
from the high bridge, there was  no  means of rescuing  any soldier who  got
into difficulty. And there was no one to rescue anybody either.  We officers
were there only to observe the men,  to make sure each one  jumped, and from
the very middle of the bridge. The rest did not concern us.
     `What if one of them drowns?' I asked the spetsnaz officer.
     `If he drowns it means he's no good for spetsnaz.'

        ___

     It means  he's no  good for spetsnaz. The  sentence expresses the whole
philosophy of battle training. The old soldiers pass it on to the young ones
who take it as a joke. But they very soon find out that nobody is joking.
     Battle training programmes for  spetsnaz are  drawn up  in consultation
with  some of the Soviet Union's leading  experts in  psychology. They  have
established that in the past training had been carried  out incorrectly,  on
the principle of moving from the simple to the more difficult. A soldier was
first  taught  to jump from a low  level, to  pack  his  parachute, to  land
properly, and so  forth, with the prospect later of learning to make  a real
parachute jump. But the longer the process of the initial training was drawn
out, the longer  the  soldier was made to wait, the more  he  began to  fear
making  the jump. Experience acquired  in  previous  wars  also  shows  that
reservists, who  were  trained  for only a  few  days and  then thrown  into
battle, in  the majority of  cases performed very well.  They were sometimes
short of training, but they  always had enough courage. The reverse was also
shown  to be true. In the First  World War the best Russian regiments stayed
in Saint Petersburg. They protected the Emperor and  they  were trained only
to be used in the most critical situations. The  longer the war went on, the
less inclined  the  guards  regiments became to  fight. The war  dragged on,
turned  into a  senseless carve-up, and finally  the possibility arose  of a
quick end to it. To bring the end nearer the Emperor decided to make use  of
his guards....
     The Revolution of 1917 was no revolution. It was simply a revolt by the
guards in just one city in a huge empire. The soldiers no  longer  wanted to
fight;  they were  afraid of war  and  did  not  want  to  die for  nothing.
Throughout the  country  there were numerous parties all  of  which were  in
favour  of ending  the  war,  and only  one  of them called for  peace.  The
soldiers  put their trust in that party. Meanwhile,  the regiments that were
fighting at the front had suffered enormous losses and their morale was very
low,  but they  had not  thought  of  dispersing to their  homes. The  front
collapsed only when the central authority in Saint Petersburg collapsed.
     Lenin's party,  which seized  power in that vast empire by means of the
bayonets of  terrified guards in  the  rear,  drew the  correct conclusions.
Today  soldiers are not kept for long in the rear and they don't spend  much
time in  training. It  is judged much  wiser  to  throw  the  young  soldier
straight into  battle, to put  those  who  remain  alive  into  the reserve,
reinforce  with  fresh  reservists,  and  into battle again.  The  title  of
`guards' is  then  granted only in the course of battle, and  only  to those
units that have suffered heavy losses but kept fighting.
     Having absorbed these lessons,  the  commanders have  introduced  other
reforms into the methods of battle training. These new principles were tried
out first of all on spetsnaz and gave good results.
     The most  important feature of the training of a young spetsnaz soldier
is not to give  him time to  reflect about what is ahead for him.  He should
come up against danger  and  terror and unpleasantness unexpectedly  and not
have time to be scared. When he overcomes this obstacle, he will be proud of
himself,  of his own daring, determination and ability to  take  risks.  And
subsequently he will not be afraid.
     Unpleasant  surprises  are always awaiting the spetsnaz soldier in  the
first  stage of his service,  sometimes in the  most unlikely situations. He
enters a classroom door and they throw a snake round his neck. He is  roused
in the morning and leaps out of bed to find, suddenly, an enormous  grey rat
in his boot. On a Saturday evening, when it seems that a hard week is behind
him, he is grabbed and thrown into a  small prison cell with a snarling dog.
The first parachute  jump is  also dealt with  unexpectedly. A  quite  short
course of instruction, then into the sky and straight away out of the hatch.
What if  he  smashes himself  up?  The answer, as usual: he is  no  good for
spetsnaz!
     Later the  soldier  receives  his full  training, both  theoretical and
practical, including  ways to  deal with a snake round his neck or a rat  in
his boot. But by then  the soldier goes to  his training classes without any
fear  of  what is to come,  because the most  frightful  things  are already
behind him.

        ___

     One of the  most  important  aspects  of  full  battle  training is the
technique of survival.  In the Soviet Union there are plenty of places where
there are no people  for thousands of square kilometres. Thus the method  is
to drop a small  group of  three or  four men by  parachute in a  completely
unfamiliar  place where there  are no  people, no  roads  and nothing except
blinding snow  from one  horizon to the  other or burning sand as far as the
eye  can see. The group  has neither a  map  nor a compass.  Each man has  a
Kalashnikov automatic, but only one round of  ammunition. In addition he has
a  knife and a spade. The food supply is the minimum, sometimes none at all.
The group does not know how long it will have to walk -- a day, five days, a
fortnight? The men can use their ammunition as  they please. They can kill a
deer, an elk or a bear. That would be  plenty for the whole group for a long
journey. But what if wolves were to attack and the ammunition were finished?
     To make  the survival exercises more realistic the groups take no radio
sets  with them,  and they  cannot transmit distress signals,  whatever  has
happened  within  the group, until they meet the first  people on their way.
Often they  begin with a parachute  drop  in the most  unpleasant places: on
thin  ice,  in a  forest,  in  mountains.  In  1982  three  Soviet  military
parachutists made a jump into the crater of the Avachinsk volcano.  First of
all they had to get themselves out of the crater.  Two other Soviet military
parachutists have several times begun their  exercises with a landing on the
summit of Mount  Elbruz (5,642 metres).  Having successfully  completed  the
survival route they have done the same thing on the highest mountains in the
Soviet Union -- the peaks  named after Lenin  (7,134 metres)  and  Communism
(7,495 metres).
     In  the conditions prevailing in Western Europe today  different habits
and  different  training  methods  are  necessary.  For this part  of  their
training spetsnaz soldiers are  dressed in  black prison jackets and dropped
off at night  in the centre of a big city. At the  same time the local radio
and  television  stations  report  that  a  group  of  especially  dangerous
criminals have escaped from the local prison. Interestingly, it is forbidden
to publish such reports in the press in the Soviet Union but they may be put
out by  the local radio and television. The  population thus gets only small
crumbs of information, so that they are scared stiff of criminals about whom
all sorts of fantastic stories start circulating.
     The `criminals' are under  orders to return to their company. The local
police  and MVD  troops  are given the job  of finding them. Only the senior
officers of the MVD know that it is only an  exercise. The middle and  lower
ranks of the MVD operate as  if it were the real thing. The  senior officers
usually tell their subordinates that the `criminals'  are not armed and they
are  to  report  immediately  one of  them is  arrested. There is a problem,
though: the police  often do not  trust the report that the criminal is  not
armed (he  may  have stolen  a gun  at the last  moment) and so, contrary to
their instructions, they  use their guns. Sometimes the arrested soldier may
be delivered back to  his  superior officers in  a  half-dead  state  --  he
resisted, they say, and we simply had to defend ourselves.
     In  some  cases major exercises are carried out,  and then the whole of
the police and the MVD troops know that it is just an  exercise. Even so, it
is  a  risky  business to  be  in  a spetsnaz group.  The MVD  use  dogs  on
exercises, and the dogs do not understand the difference between an exercise
and real fighting.

        ___

     The spetsnaz soldier operates on the territory of the enemy. One of his
main tasks is, as we have seen, to seek out specially important targets, for
which purpose he has to capture people and extract the necessary information
from them by force. That the soldier knows how to extract the information we
have no  doubt. But  how  can he understand what  his  prisoner  is  saying?
Spetsnaz officers go through special language training and in addition every
spetsnaz company has an officer-interpreter who speaks at least two  foreign
languages  fluently. But there is not always  an officer to hand in  a small
group,  so every soldier  and sergeant questioning a prisoner must have some
knowledge of  a foreign language. But most  spetsnaz soldiers serve for only
two  years  and  their  battle training  is  so intense that it  just is not
possible to fit in even a few extra hours.
     How  is  this  problem  solved? Can  a  spetsnaz  soldier  understand a
prisoner who nods  his head under  torture  and indicates  his  readiness to
talk?
     The  ordinary  spetsnaz  soldier  has  a  command  of  fifteen  foreign
languages and can use them freely. This is how he does it.
     Imagine  that you  have been taken prisoner by a  spetsnaz  group. Your
companion has had a hot iron on the palms of his hands and a big nail driven
into  his head as a  demonstration. They look at you questioningly.  You nod
your  head  --  you  agree  to  talk.  Every  spetsnaz soldier  has a silken
phrase-book -- a white silk  handkerchief on which there are sixteen rows of
different  questions and  answers. The first sentence in  Russian is:  `Keep
your mouth  shut  or I'll  kill you.' The sergeant  points to this sentence.
Next to it is a translation  into  English, German, French  and  many  other
languages. You  find the answer  you  need in your own language and nod your
head.  Very  good. You understand each other.  They can free your mouth. The
next sentence is: `If you don't tell the truth you'll be sorry!' You quickly
find the equivalent in your own language. All right, all clear. Further down
the silk scarf are about a hundred simple sentences,  each with translations
into fifteen  languages -- `Where?',  `Missile', `Headquarters', `Airfield',
`Store', `Police checkpoint', `Minefield', `How is it guarded?', `Platoon?',
`Company?',  `Battalion?',  `Dogs?', `Yes', `No',  and  so forth.  The  last
sentence is a repetition of  the second: `If you don't tell the truth you'll
be sorry!'
     It takes only a couple  of  minutes  to teach the stupidest  soldier to
communicate with the aid of the silken phrase-book.  In addition the soldier
is taught to say and  understand the simplest and most necessary words, like
`forward', `back', `there', `here', `to the right', `to the left', `metres',
`kilometres' and the numbers from one to twenty. If a soldier is not able to
learn this no harm is done, because it is all written on the silk  scarf, of
which there is one for every man in the group.
     In the  early 1970s Soviet scientists  started to develop  a very light
electronic device for translating  in place  of the silken phrase-book or to
supplement it. The  high command's requirements  were simple: the device had
to weigh  not more than  400 grams, had to fit  into a satchel and to be the
size  of  a  small book or even smaller.  It had  to have a display on which
could appear a word or simple phrase  in Russian which  would immediately be
translated into one  of the  most widely used  languages.  The person  being
questioned would print out his answer which  would immediately be translated
into  Russian.  I do not  know  whether such a device  is  now  in  use. But
progress in technology will  soon  permit the creation of something similar.
Not  only spetsnaz  but  many other  organisations  in  the Soviet Army have
displayed interest  in the device. However,  no  device  can replace  a real
interpreter,  and  that  is  why, along with the real interpreters, so  many
people of different foreign nationalities are to be found in spetsnaz.
     A  Soviet soldier who escaped from Afghanistan told how he had been put
into a reconnaissance company from an air-assault brigade. This is a case of
not-quite  spetsnaz.  Somebody  found  out that  he spoke one  of the  local
dialects and he was immediately sent to the commanding  officer. The officer
asked him two questions, the traditional two:
     `Do you drink vodka? What about sport?'
     `Vodka, yes, sport no.'
     He gave completely  the wrong answers. But in  battle conditions  a man
speaking  the language of the enemy is particularly valued. They take him on
in  spite of everything,  and  take very good  care  of him, because  on his
ability to speak and  understand  what  is  said may depend the life of  the
group or of many groups. And on  the  way the groups carry out their mission
may depend the lives of thousands and in some cases millions  of people. The
one drawback to being an interpreter is that interpreters are never forgiven
for  making a mistake.  But the  drawback is the same  for him as it is  for
everyone else in the unit.

        ___

     No soldier  should  be afraid  of fire. Throughout the  Soviet Army, in
every branch of the forces, very close attention  is  paid to a soldier's or
sailor's psychological  readiness to come up against fire.  In the Navy  old
submarines are grounded, and several sailors are shut  in  a compartment  in
which a fire is started. In the  tank forces men are shut  into  an old tank
and a fire is lit inside or outside and sometimes both at once.
     The spetsnaz soldier  comes up against fire more  often than  any other
soldier.  For that reason it is  constantly  present in his battle  training
from the first to the last  day.  At least once  a day he  sees fire that is
clearly threatening  his life. He is forced  to jump over  wide ditches with
fires raging  in them. He  has  to  race  through burning rooms  and  across
burning bridges. He rides a motorcycle between flaming walls. Fire can break
out  next to him at any  moment -- when he is eating or sleeping. When he is
making a parachute jump to test the  accuracy of his fall a tremendous flame
may flare up suddenly beneath him.
     The spetsnaz soldier is taught to deal with fire and to protect himself
and his comrades  by  every means -- rolling along  the ground  to  stop his
clothes  burning,  smothering   the  flames  with   earth,  branches  or   a
groundsheet. In  learning to  deal with fire the most important thing is not
so much for him to get to know ways  of  protecting himself (though  this is
important) as to make him realise that fire is a constant  companion of life
which is always at his side.
     Another  very important element  of  spetsnaz  training is to  teach  a
soldier not to  be afraid of blood  and  to be able to  kill.  This  is more
important and  more  difficult for  spetsnaz  than  for  the  infantry,  for
example. The infantry man kills  his enemy mainly at a distance of more than
a hundred metres and often at  a distance of 300 or 400 metres or more.  The
infantryman does not see the expression on the face of his enemy. His job is
simply  to take aim  correctly,  hold  his  breath  and  press  the  trigger
smoothly.  The  infantryman fires  at plywood targets in  peacetime, and  in
wartime at people who look at a distance very much like plywood targets. The
blood which an infantryman  sees is mainly the blood of his  dead comrade or
his own, and it gives rise to anger and a thirst for revenge. After that the
infantryman fires at his enemy without feeling any twinges of conscience.
     The training of a  spetsnaz  soldier is much more complicated. He often
has to kill the enemy at close quarters, looking  him straight in the  face.
He  sees blood, but  it is  not the blood of his comrades; it  is  often the
blood of a completely innocent man. The officers commanding spetsnaz have to
be  sure  that  every  spetsnaz  soldier  will  do his  duty  in a  critical
situation.
     Like fire,  blood is a constant attribute of the  battle training of  a
soldier. It used  to  be thought that a soldier could be accustomed  to  the
sight of blood gradually -- first a  little blood and then more day by  day.
But  experts  have  thrown  out  this  view.  The spetsnaz  soldier's  first
encounter with blood should be, they argue, quite unexpected  and in copious
quantities. In the  course of his career as a fighting man  there  will be a
whole lot of monstrous things which will  spring  up in front of him without
any  warning at all.  So he should get used to being unsurprised at anything
and afraid of nothing.
     A group  of young  spetsnaz soldiers are hauled  out  of  bed at  night
because  of an emergency, and  sent in pursuit of  a  `spy'. The  worse  the
weather the better. Best of all when there is torrential rain, a gusty wind,
mud and slush. Many kilometres of obstacles --  broken-down stairs, holes in
walls, ropes across  holes and  ditches. The  platoon  of young soldiers are
completely out of breath, their hearts beating fast. Their  feet slip, their
hands are scratched  and bruised. Forward!  Everyone is bad-tempered  -- the
officers and especially the men. The soldier can give vent to his anger only
by punching some weaker fellow-sufferer in the face and maybe getting a kick
in the ribs in reply. The area is dotted with  ruined houses, everything  is
smashed, ripped apart, and there's  broken  glass  everywhere. Everything is
wet and  slippery,  and  there are never-ending obstacles  with searchlights
trained on them. But they don't help: they only hinder,  blinding the men as
they scramble  over. Now  they come to a dark cellar, with the  doors ripped
off  the  hinges. Everybody down.  Along  the  corridor.  Then there's water
ahead.  The whole group  running  at full tilt  without slowing down  rushes
straight into  some sticky liquid. A  blinding light  flashes  on. It's  not
water they are  in  -- it's blood.  Blood up to  the knees,  the waist,  the
chest. On the  walls and the  ceiling are chunks of rotten  flesh,  piles of
bleeding  entrails.  The  steps  are  slippery from  slimy  bits  of  brain.
Undecided,  the  young  soldiers jam  the  corridor.  Then somebody  in  the
darkness lets a huge dog off its chain. There is only one way out -- through
the blood. Only forwards, where there is a wide passageway and  a  staircase
upwards.
     Where on earth could they get so much blood?  From the slaughter-house,
of course.  It is  not  so  difficult to make the tank of blood.  It  can be
narrow and not very deep, but  it must be twisting and there must  be a very
low ceiling over it. The building in which the tank of blood is arranged can
be quite small, but piles of rotten boards, beams and concrete slabs must be
tipped  into it. Even in  very limited  space it  is possible  to create the
impression that you are in  an endless labyrinth overflowing with blood. The
most  important thing is to have  plenty of twists and turns,  holes,  gaps,
dead ends and  doors. If  you  don't have  enough blood  you can  simply use
animal entrails  mixed with blood. The  bottom of the tank must not be even:
you must give the learner the possibility of tripping over and  going under.
But most important is that the first training session should take place with
a group of  really young  soldiers who have  joined  spetsnaz but  are still
isolated and have had no  opportunity of  meeting  older soldiers and  being
warned what  to expect. And  there's something  else: the tank of blood must
not be the final obstacle that  night.  The greatest mistake is to drive the
men through the tank and then bring  the exercise to an end, leaving them to
clean themselves  up and  go to bed. In that case the blood will only appear
to  them  as  a  terrible  dream. Keep  driving  them on over  more and more
obstacles.
     Exhausting training  exercises must  be repeated  and  repeated  again,
never stopping to rest. Carry on with the  exercise throughout  the morning,
throughout the day.  Without  food  and without drink. In  that way  the men
acquire the habit of  not being taken aback by any surprises. Blood on their
hands  and  on their  uniforms, blood  in  their  boots  -- it  all  becomes
something  familiar.  On the same day there must also  be  a lot of gunfire,
labyrinths with bones, and dogs, dogs and more dogs. The tank of blood  must
be  remembered by the men as  something quite ordinary in  a whole series of
painful experiences.
     In  the next training session there is no need to use  a lot  of blood,
but it must be constantly present. The men have to crawl beneath some barbed
wire. Why not throw some sheep's  innards on to the ground and the wire? Let
them crawl over that and not just along the ground. A soldier is firing from
his sub-machine-gun  on  the  firing range.  Why  not  surround  his  firing
position with chunks  of rotting  meat  which is in  any case  no  good  for
eating? A soldier makes a parachute jump to test  the  accuracy of his drop.
Why not put on his landing spot, face down, a big puppet in spetsnaz uniform
with  a  torn, twisted parachute spattered with pig's blood?  These  are all
standard  tricks in spetsnaz,  simple and effective. To  increase the effect
the  instructors  are constantly creating situations  in  which the men  are
obliged to get blood on their hands.  For example, a soldier has to overcome
an obstacle by scrambling up a wall. When he reaches up to grab the ridge at
the top of  the wall he  finds  it  slippery and sticky from blood. He has a
choice --  either to drop down and break his legs (and maybe his neck) or to
hang on tighter with both hands, rest his chin on the filthy sill, shift his
grip, pull himself up and  jump  in through  the  window. A spetsnaz soldier
does  not fall.  He pulls himself up and, with blood all  over him, swearing
hoarsely, he carries on his way, onwards, ever onwards.
     Later in the programme come  half-joking  exercises  such  as:  catch a
pregnant cat, open its belly with a razor  blade  and count how many kittens
it has. This  is not such  an  easy  exercise  as might appear at first. The
soldier has no gloves,  the cat scratches and he has no one to help him.  As
an instrument he is  allowed to  use  only  a  blunt, broken razor  blade or
razor, and he can easily cut his own fingers.
     The  process  of  familiarising  spetsnaz  men with  the sight and  the
reality of  blood is not in the least intended to make them into sadists. It
is simply that blood is a liquid with which  they are going to have  to work
in wartime. A  spetsnaz soldier  may  not  be  scared of  the red  liquid. A
surgeon works continually with blood and  so  does  the butcher.  What would
happen  if a surgeon or a butcher were suddenly to be afraid of the sight of
blood?

        ___

     Every Soviet soldier, wherever he may be serving, must be  able to run,
to shoot accurately, to keep his weapon clean and in good working order, and
carry out  the orders  of  his superiors  precisely and quickly and  without
asking unnecessary questions.  If one studies the battle training  of Soviet
troops one  notices  that there are  common standards  for  all branches  of
troops operating in any conditions. This gives the  impression that training
in the Soviet  Army is  the same  whatever the conditions. This is not quite
true. Many of the demands placed on officers and men are standard throughout
the Army. Nevertheless, each Soviet military  district  and  each  group  of
forces operates in conditions  unique  to  itself. Troops of  the  Leningrad
military district have  to operate in  very severe northern  conditions, and
their  training takes place  in forests, marshes and the tundra of an arctic
climate.  Troops of the Transcaucasian military district have  to operate in
high mountains, while  those of  the Carpathian and  Ural military districts
have  to operate in medium-high mountains. Even so, the  Carpathian district
has  a  mild  European climate, while that of  the Ural  district  is wildly
different: harsh, with a very hot summer and a very cold winter.
     Every military district and group of forces has a commanding officer, a
chief of staff and  a head of  Intelligence who answer with their heads  for
the battle-readiness of  the troops under their command.  But every district
and group faces a  specific enemy, and its own particular (though absolutely
secret) task to perform in the event of war, and its  own individual role in
the plans of the General Staff.
     One  reason that training  takes place  in situ  is that  every  Soviet
frontier district and group of  forces  has,  as  a  rule, the  same natural
conditions as the territories in which it will have to fight.  Conditions in
Karelia  differ very little  from those in  Norway,  Sweden and  Finland. If
troops from the  Carpathian military district cross  the frontier, they find
themselves in a country of high rugged mountains identical to that in  which
they  are permanently stationed. And, if the  Soviet troops in Germany cross
the  frontier, even  if there are  small differences of terrain and climate,
they are at any rate still in Germany.
     Spetsnaz is concentrated at this level of  fronts  and armies.  To make
sure  that spetsnaz  training  is  carried out  in conditions  as  close  as
possible to those  in which the  troops  will have to operate  the  spetsnaz
brigades  now  have  special  training centres.  For  example,  the  natural
conditions  in  the  Baltic  military district are very similar to  those in
Denmark,  Belgium,  the   Netherlands,  northern  Germany  and  France.  The
mountainous  Altai is  strikingly similar  to  Scotland. In  the Carpathians
there are places very similar  to  the French Alps.  If troops  have  to  be
trained for  operations  in Alaska and  Canada,  Siberia  is  ideal for  the
purpose, while for operating in Australia spetsnaz  units have to be trained
in Kazakhstan. The spetsnaz brigades have their  own training centres, but a
brigade (or any other spetsnaz unit) can be ordered at any moment to operate
in an unfamiliar training centre belonging to another brigade. For  example,
during the `Dvina' manoeuvres spetsnaz units from  the Leningrad, Moscow and
North  Caucasus military districts were transferred to Belorussia to operate
there in  unfamiliar conditions. The difference in conditions was especially
great for the units transferred from the northern Caucasus.
     These  transfers  are  restricted  mainly to  troops  of  the  internal
military districts. It is reckoned that troops which  are already located in
Germany,  Czechoslovakia  and  the  Transcaucasian  military districts  will
remain there in any circumstances, and it is better to train them thoroughly
for operations in those conditions  without wasting  effort  on training for
every kind of condition. `Universal' training is needed by the troops of the
internal districts  -- the Siberian, Ural, Volga, Moscow  and a  few  others
which in the event  of war will be switched  to  crisis  points. Courses are
also  provided  for  the  professional  athletes.  Every  one  of  these  is
continually taking part in contests and travelling  round  the whole country
from Vladivostok  to  Tashkent  and Tbilisi to Archangelsk.  Such  trips  in
themselves  play  a tremendous part  in  training. The  professional athlete
becomes  psychologically  prepared  to  operate   in  any  climate  and  any
circumstances. Trips abroad, especially trips to those countries in which he
will have to operate in the event of war,  are of even greater assistance in
removing psychological barriers and making the  athlete ready for  action in
any conditions.

        ___

     Spetsnaz units are often involved in manoeuvres at different levels and
with  different   kinds  of   participants.  Their  principal  `enemies'  on
manoeuvres are the MVD troops, the militia, the frontier  troops of the KGB,
the  government communications network of  the KGB and the ordinary units of
the armed forces.
     In time  of war KGB and MVD troops would be expected to operate against
national  liberation movements  within the  Soviet Union, of  which the most
dangerous is perceived to be the Russian movement against  the USSR. (In the
last war  it was the Russians  who created the most  powerful anti-Communist
army -- the ROA). The Ukrainian resistance movement is also considered to be
very dangerous. Partisan operations would inevitably break out in the Baltic
states and the  Caucasus, among others.  KGB  and MVD troops, which  are not
controlled by the Ministry of  Defence, are equipped with helicopters, naval
vessels, tanks, artillery and armoured personnel  carriers, and exercises in
which they  operate against spetsnaz  are of exceptional value  to them. But
the heads of the GRU are keen on  joint manoeuvres for their own reasons. If
spetsnaz has years'  experience of operating against such powerful opponents
as the KGB and MVD, its performance against less powerful opponents can only
be enhanced.
     In the course of manoeuvres the KGB and the MVD (along  with the Soviet
military units  which have to  defend themselves) use  against spetsnaz  the
whole  gamut  of  possible  means of defence,  from total control  of  radio
communication to electronic sensors, from hunter aircraft provided  with the
latest equipment to sniffer dogs, which are used in enormous numbers.
     Apart  from  operating against real  Soviet  military targets, spetsnaz
units go through  courses  at  training  centres  where  the  conditions and
atmosphere of  the  areas  in  which  they will  be  expected  to fight  are
reproduced with great fidelity. Models of Pluto, Pershing and Lance missiles
and of Mirage-VI,  Jaguar  and  other  nuclear-armed  aircraft  are  used to
indicate  the  `enemy'. There  is  also artillery capable of firing  nuclear
shells, special kinds of vehicles used for  transporting missiles, warheads,
and so forth.
     The spetsnaz  groups  have to overcome many lines  of defences, and any
group that is caught by the defenders is subject to treatment that  is rough
enough to  knock out of  the  men  any desire  to  get caught in the future,
either on manoeuvres or in a  real  battle. The spetsnaz  soldier constantly
has the thought  drilled into him that being a prisoner is worse than death.
At the  same time  he is  taught  that his aims are noble ones. First  he is
captured on manoeuvres  and severely  beaten, then he is shown archive  film
shot in concentration camps in the Second World War (the films are naturally
more frightful than what can  be  perpetrated  on  manoeuvres),  then he  is
released, but may be seized again and subject to a repeat performance. It is
calculated  that, in  a fairly  short time the soldier  will develop a  very
strong negative reaction to the idea of being a prisoner, and  the certainty
that death -- a noble death, in the cause of spetsnaz -- is preferable.

        ___

     One one occasion following my flight  to the West I was present at some
large-scale  military  manoeuvres  in  which  the  armies  of  many  Western
countries took part. The standard of battle training made  a very favourable
impression on me. I was particularly impressed by  the skilful, I would even
say masterly, way the units  camouflaged  themselves. The battle  equipment,
the  tanks  and  other vehicles,  and the  armoured  personnel  carriers are
painted with  something that  does  not reflect  the sunlight; the colour is
very cleverly chosen; and the camouflaging  is painted in such a way that it
is  difficult  to  make  out the vehicle even  at a  short distance  and its
outline mixes  in with  the  background.  But  every army made one  enormous
mistake with the camouflaging of some of the vehicles, which had huge  white
circles and red  crosses painted  on their sides. I explained to the Western
officers that the red and white colours were very easily seen at a distance,
and that it would be better to use green paint. I was told that the vehicles
with  the red cross were intended for transporting the wounded, which I knew
perfectly well. That was a good reason,  I said,  why the crosses should  be
painted out  or made very  much  smaller. Please be human, I  said. You  are
transporting a wounded  man and you must  protect him  by every  means. Then
protect him. Hide him. Make sure the Communists can't see him.
     The argument continued and I did not  win the day. Later, other Western
officers  tried  to  explain  to  me  that  I  was  simply ignorant  of  the
international agreement about these things. You are not allowed to fire on a
vehicle with a  red  cross. I agreed  that I  was ignorant  and knew nothing
about these agreements.  But like me, the Soviet  soldier is also unaware of
those  agreements.  Those big  red crosses are painted  so that  the  Soviet
soldier can see them and not fire on them. But the Soviet soldier only knows
that a red  cross means something medical. Nobody has ever  told  him he was
not to shoot at a red cross.
     I learnt about this strange rule, that red crosses must not be shot at,
quite by chance. When  I was still  a Soviet  officer, I  was reading a book
about Nazi war criminals and amongst the charges made was the assertion that
the  Nazis had sometimes fired  on cars  and trains bearing a red  cross.  I
found this very interesting, because I could  not understand why such an act
was considered a crime. A  war was being fought and  one side  was trying to
destroy the other. In what  way did  trains and cars with red crosses differ
from the enemy's other vehicles?
     I found the answer to the question quite independently, but not in  the
Soviet regulations. Perhaps  there is  an answer to the question there, but,
having served in the Soviet Army for many years and having sat for dozens of
examinations  at  different  levels,  I  have  never  once come  across  any
reference  to  the  rule that  a soldier  may  not fire at  a red  cross. At
manoeuvres  I  often  asked  my  commanding  officers,  some  of  them  very
high-ranking,  in a  very  provocative way  what would  happen if  an  enemy
vehicle suddenly appeared with a red cross on it. I was always answered in a
tone of bewilderment.  A  Soviet officer of very high rank who had graduated
from a couple  of academies could  not understand what difference it made if
there  were a red  cross. Soviet officers have never been told  its complete
significance.  I  never   bothered  to  put  the  question   to  any  of  my
subordinates.
     I graduated from the Military-Diplomatic  Academy, and did not  perform
badly there. In  the  course of my studies I listened attentively to all the
lectures and was always waiting for someone among my teachers (many of  them
with general's braid and many years' experience in international affairs) to
say something about the red cross. But I learnt only  that the International
Red Cross organisation is located in Geneva, directly opposite the Permanent
Representation  of  the  USSR  in  United Nations  agencies,  and  that  the
organisation, like any  other  international  organisation, can  be used  by
officers  of  the  Soviet  Intelligence  services  as  a  cover  for   their
activities.
     For  whose  benefit do  the armies  of the West paint  those  huge  red
crosses on their  ambulances?  Try painting  a  red cross  on your back  and
chest, and going into the forest in winter. Do you  think the red cross will
save  you  from  being attacked by wolves?  Of course not. The wolves do not
know  your laws  and  do not understand  your symbols. So why  do you  use a
symbol the meaning of which the enemy has no idea?
     In  the  last  war  the   Communists  did   not  respect  international
conventions and treaties, but some of their enemies, with  many centuries of
culture  and  excellent traditions, failed equally  to respect international
laws. Since then the Red Army  has used the red  cross symbol,  painted very
small,  as a sign to tell its  own soldiers where  the hospital  is. The red
cross needs only to be visible to their own men.  The Red  Army has no faith
in the goodwill of the enemy.
     International  treaties  and conventions have  never saved anybody from
being  attacked. The Ribbentrop-Molotov pact  is a striking example.  It did
not  protect the  Soviet Union.  But  if  Hitler had managed  to  invade the
British Isles the  pact would not have protected Germany either. Stalin said
quite openly on this point: `War can turn all agreements of any kind  upside
down.'1

     1 Pravda, 15 September 1927.

     The  Soviet  leadership  and  the  Soviet  diplomatic  service  adopt a
philosophical attitude to all agreements. If one trusts a friend there is no
need  for a treaty; friends do not  need  to rely  on  treaties to  call for
assistance. If one is weaker than one's enemy a treaty  will not be any  use
anyway. And if one  is  stronger than one's  enemy,  what  is the  point  of
observing  a  treaty? International  treaties  are  just  an  instrument  of
politics  and  propaganda. The Soviet leadership and the Soviet Army  put no
trust  in  any  treaties,  believing  only in the force that  is  behind the
treaties.
     Thus the enormous red cross on the side of a military vehicle is just a
symbol of Western naivete and faith  in the force of  protocols, paragraphs,
signatures and seals.  Since Western diplomats  have  signed  these treaties
they ought to insist that the Soviet Union,  having also signed them, should
explain to its soldiers, officers and generals what they contain, and should
include in  its  official regulations special  paragraphs forbidding certain
acts in war.  Only then would there be any sense in painting on the huge red
crosses.
     The red cross is only one example. One needs constantly to keep in mind
what Lenin always emphasised: that a dictatorship relies on force and not on
the law. `The scientific  concept of dictatorship means power, limited in no
way, by no laws and restrained by  absolutely no rules, and relying directly
on force.'2

     2 Lenin, Vol. 25, p. 441.

     Spetsnaz is one of the  weapons  of a dictatorship. Its battle training
is imbued with just one idea: to destroy the enemy. It  is an ambition which
is not subject to any diplomatic, juridical, ethical or moral restraints.

--------

      Chapter 11. Behind Enemy Lines: Spetsnaz Tactics



     Before  spetsnaz units can begin  active operations  behind the enemy's
lines  they have  to get there.  The  Soviet high command  has the choice of
either sending spetsnaz troops behind the enemy's lines before the  outbreak
of war, or  sending them there after war has  broken out. In the  first case
the enemy may discover them, realise that war has already begun and possibly
press the  buttons to  start a nuclear  war -- pre-empting the Soviet Union.
But if spetsnaz troops are sent in after the outbreak of war,  it may be too
late. The  enemy may already have activated its nuclear capability, and then
there will be nothing to put out of action in the enemy's rear: the missiles
will be on their way to  Soviet territory. One  potential  solution  to  the
dilemma  is  that  the better,  smaller part of spetsnaz -- the professional
athletes --  arrives before all-out war starts, taking extreme  measures not
to  be  discovered,  while the  standard  units penetrate behind enemy lines
after war has started.

        ___

     In every Soviet embassy there are two  secret organisations -- the  KGB
rezidentura and the GRU rezidentura. The embassy and the KGB rezidentura are
guarded by officers of the KGB frontier troops, but in  cases where the  GRU
rezidentura  has a complement of  more  than ten  officers,  it has  its own
internal spetsnaz guard. Before the outbreak of a war, in some cases several
months previously, the number of  spetsnaz officers in a  Soviet embassy may
be substantially increased, to the point where practically all the auxiliary
personnel  in  the  embassy,  performing the  duties  of  guards,  cleaners,
radio-operators, cooks and mechanics, will be  spetsnaz athletes. With them,
as their `wives',  women athletes  from spetsnaz may turn up in the embassy.
Similar changes  of  staff may take place in the many other Soviet bodies --
the consulate, the  commercial  representation,  the  offices  of  Aeroflot,
Intourist, TASS, Novosti and so forth.
     The advantages of this arrangement are obvious, but  it  is not without
its dangers. The principal danger lies in the fact that  these new terrorist
groups  are  based right in  the  centre  of  the  country's  capital  city,
uncomfortably close to government offices and surveillance. But within days,
possibly within  hours, before the outbreak of war they can, with care, make
contact with the spetsnaz  agent network and start  a  real war in the  very
centre of the city, using hiding places already prepared.
     Part of their support will come from  other spetsnaz groups  which have
recently arrived in the country in the guise of tourists, teams of sportsmen
and various  delegations. And  at  the  very  last  moment large  groups  of
fighting  men may suddenly  appear out of  Aeroflot planes,  ships in  port,
trains   and   Soviet   long-distance   road   transport   (`Sovtransavto').
Simultaneously there may be a  secret landing of spetsnaz troops from Soviet
submarines and surface  vessels,  both  naval and merchant.  (Small  fishing
vessels  make an excellent means of  transport for spetsnaz. They  naturally
spend long periods in the coastal waters of foreign states and do not arouse
suspicion,  so spetsnaz  groups can spend a long time aboard and can  easily
return home if they do not get an order to make a landing). At the  critical
moment, on receipt of a signal, they can make  a landing  on the coast using
aqualungs  and small boats. Spetsnaz  groups arriving  by Aeroflot can adopt
much  the same tactics. In a period of tension,  a system of regular watches
may be introduced. This means that among the passengers on every plane there
will be a  group of commandos. Having arrived at their intended  airport and
not having been given a signal, they can  remain aboard the aircraft1 and go
back on the next flight.  Next day another group will make  the trip, and so
on. One day the  signal  will come,  and  the group will leave the plane and
start fighting right in the country's main  airport. Their main task  is  to
capture the airport for the benefit of a fresh wave  of  spetsnaz  troops or
airborne units (VDV).

     1 An aircraft is considered  to be part of the territory of the country
to which it belongs, and the pilot's cabin and the interior of the plane are
not subject to foreign supervision.

     It  is  a  well-known  fact that the `liberation' of  Czechoslovakia in
August 1968  began  with  the arrival at Prague airport  of Soviet  military
transport planes with  VDV troops on board. The airborne troops did not need
parachutes; the  planes simply  landed  at the  airport.  Before the  troops
disembarked there was a moment when  both  the aircraft and their passengers
were completely defenceless. Was  the Soviet high command not taking a risk?
No, because the fact is  that by the time  the planes landed, Prague airport
had already been largely paralysed by a group of `tourists' who  had arrived
earlier.
     Spetsnaz groups  may turn up  in the  territory  of an enemy  from  the
territory of neutral  states. Before  the outbreak  of war  or  during a war
spetsnaz groups may  penetrate secretly into the territory of neutral states
and wait there for an agreed signal or until a  previously agreed time.  One
of the  advantages of  this is  that  the enemy  does  not  watch  over  his
frontiers with neutral countries as carefully as  he does over his frontiers
with Communist  countries. The arrival of a  spetsnaz  group  from a neutral
state may pass unnoticed both by the enemy and the neutral state.
     But what happens if  the group is  discovered on neutral territory? The
answer is simple: the group will go into  action in the same way as in enemy
territory -- avoid being followed, kill any witnesses, use force and cunning
to halt any pursuers. They will make every effort to ensure that nobody from
the  group gets into the  hands  of  their  pursuers and  not  to  leave any
evidence about to  show that  the  group belongs to the armed forces  of the
USSR.  If the group should  be captured by  the authorities of  the  neutral
state,  Soviet  diplomacy  has  enormous  experience  and  some   well-tried
counter-moves. It may admit its mistake, make an official  apology and offer
compensation for any damage caused;  it may declare that the group  lost its
way  and thought it  was already in enemy  territory; or  it may accuse  the
neutral state of having deliberately seized a group of members of the Soviet
armed  forces on  Soviet territory  for  provocative  purposes,  and  demand
explanations, apologies and compensation, accompanied by open threats.
     Experience  has  shown that  this last plan is  the  most reliable. The
reader should not dismiss it lightly. Soviet official publications wrote  at
the beginning  of December 1939  that war was being waged against Finland in
order to establish a  Communist regime there, and a Communist  government of
`people's  Finland'  had already  been  formed.  Thirty years  later  Soviet
marshals were writing that it was not at all like that: the Soviet Union was
simply acting in self-defence. The war against Finland, which was waged from
the  first  to  the  last  day  on  Finnish  territory,  is now described as
`repelling  Finnish  aggression'2  and  even  as  `fulfilling  the plan  for
protecting our frontiers.'3

     2 Marshal  K.  A. Meretskov, Na Sluzhbe narodu  (In the  Service of the
People), 1968.

     3 Marshal A. M. Vasilevsky, Delo Vsei gesnie (A Life's Work), 1968.

     The  Soviet  Union  is  always  innocent:  it  only  repels  perfidious
aggressors. On other people's territory.

        ___

     The principal  way of  delivering  the  main  body  of  spetsnaz to the
enemy's rear after the outbreak of war  is to drop them by parachute. In the
course of his two years' service every spetsnaz soldier makes thirty-five to
forty parachute jumps. Spetsnaz professionals and officers have much greater
experience with parachutes; some have thousands of jumps to their credit.
     The  parachute is not  just a weapon and a  form  of transport. It also
acts as a filter which courageous soldiers will  pass through, but weak  and
cowardly  men will not. The  Soviet Government spends  enormous  sums on the
development of  parachute jumping  as  a sport. This  is the main  base from
which the airborne troops and  spetsnaz are built up.  On 1 January 1985 the
FAI had  recorded sixty-three  world records  in parachute jumping, of which
forty-eight are held by Soviet sportsmen (which means the Soviet  Army). The
Soviet military  athlete  Yuri  Baranov  was  the first  man in the world to
exceed  13,000 jumps. Among Soviet women the champion in the number of jumps
is Aleksandra Shvachko --  she has made 8,200 jumps. The parachute psychosis
continues.

        ___

     In  peacetime military transport  planes are used for  making parachute
drops. But this is  done  largely to  prevent  the fact of the existence  of
spetsnaz from spreading. In wartime  military transports would be  used  for
dropping spetsnaz groups only in exceptional circumstances.  There  are  two
reasons for this. In the first place,  the whole fleet of military transport
planes  would be taken  up with transporting the airborne forces  (VDV),  of
which there  are an  enormous number. Apart from  which,  military  aviation
would have  other difficult missions  to  perform, such as the transport  of
troops within the country from  passive, less important sectors to the areas
where the main fighting was taking place. Secondly, the majority of military
transports are enormous aircraft, built for moving people and equipment on a
large scale,  which  do  not  suit the  purposes of spetsnaz. It needs small
planes that do  not present  large  targets and carry no more than twenty or
thirty people. They must also be able to fly at  very low level without much
noise. In some cases even smaller aircraft that take eight to  ten, or  down
to three or four parachutists, are needed.
     However,  the  official  term `civil aviation', which is the source  of
most spetsnaz transport  in wartime, is a substantial misnomer. The minister
for civil aviation bears, quite officially, the rank of air chief marshal in
the  Air  Force.  His  deputies bear  the rank  of  generals.  The  whole of
Aeroflot's flying  personnel have  the ranks of  officers of the reserve. In
the event of war Aeroflot simply merges with the Soviet Air  Force, and  the
reserve officers then become regular officers with the same rank.
     It has more than enough small aircraft for the business of transporting
and supplying  spetsnaz units.  The best of them are the Yakovlev-42 and the
Yakovlev-40, very manoeuvrable, reliable, low-noise planes capable of flying
at very low  altitudes. They have one very important construction feature --
passengers embark  and disembark through a  hatch at the bottom and  rear of
the aircraft. If need be, the  hatch cover can be removed altogether, giving
the parachutists an  exit as  on a military transport plane, which  makes it
possible to  drop  them in complete  safety.  Another  plane that has  great
possibilities  for spetsnaz  is  the  Antonov-72  --  an  exact  copy of the
American YC-14 of which the plans were stolen by GRU spies.
     But how  can  spetsnaz parachutists  use  ordinary  civil jet-propelled
aircraft, which  passengers enter and leave by side doors?  The doors cannot
be  opened in flight.  And  if they  were made  to  open inwards  instead of
outwards, it would be exceptionally dangerous for a parachutist to leave the
plane, because the force  of the  current  of air  would press the  man back
against the body of the plane. He might be killed either from the force with
which he bounced back  against the plane,  or through  interference with the
opening of his parachute.
     The  problem  has been solved by  a  very  simple  device. The  door is
arranged to  open  inwards,  and  a wide  tube  made  of  strong,  flexible,
synthetic  material  is allowed  to  hang  out. As  he  leaves the door  the
parachutist finds himself  in  a sort of three-metre  long corridor which he
slides down so that he comes away  from  the aircraft when he is slightly to
one side and below the fuselage.
     Variations on  this  device were  first  used  on  Ilyushin-76 military
transport planes. The heavy equipment of the airborne troops was dropped out
of the huge rear  freight hatch, while at the same time the men were leaving
the plane through flexible  `sleeves' at the side. The West  has  not  given
this simple but very clever invention its due.  Its importance lies not only
in the  fact  that the time taken to drop Soviet parachutists from transport
planes  has been substantially reduced, with  the result that every  drop is
safer and that forces are much  better concentrated on landing. What it also
means is that practically any jet-propelled civil aircraft can now  be  used
for dropping parachute troops.

        ___

     The dropping of a spetsnaz unit can  be carried out at any  time of the
day or night. Every time has its advantages and its  problems. Night-time is
the spetsnaz soldier's ally, when the appearance of a group of spetsnaz deep
in the enemy's rear may  not be noticed at all. Even if the enemy were aware
of the group's arrival,  it is never easy to organise a full-scale search at
night,  especially  if the exact  landing  place  is  not  known and  may be
somewhere  inaccessible where there are forests and hills or  mountains with
few roads and no  troops  on the spot. But at night there are likely  to  be
casualties among  the parachutists  as  they  land.  The  same  problems  of
assembly  and orientation which face the pursuit troops  face  the  spetsnaz
unit too.
     During the  day, obviously, there  are fewer accidents on landing;  but
the landing will  be seen.  Deliberate  daytime  landings may  sometimes  be
carried out for the simple reason that the enemy does not expect such brazen
behaviour at such a time.
     In many cases the drop will be carried out early  in  the morning while
there are still stars in the  sky  and the sun has not risen. This is a very
good time if large numbers of soldiers are being dropped who are expected to
go straight into battle and carry out their mission by  means  of  a  really
sudden attack. In that case the  high  command does its best to  ensure that
the groups  have as much daylight as possible  for  active operations on the
first, most important day of their mission.
     But every  spetsnaz  soldier's favourite time for  being  dropped is at
sunset. The flight is calculated so  that the parachutists' drop  is carried
out in the last minutes before the onset of darkness. The landing then takes
place  in the twilight when it is  still  light enough to avoid landing on a
church spire or a telegraph pole. In half an hour at the most darkness  will
conceal the men and they will have the whole night  ahead of  them  to leave
the landing area and cover their tracks.

        ___

     On  its own  territory  spetsnaz  has a standard  military  structure4:
section, platoon, company, battalion, brigade; or section, platoon, company,
regiment.  This  organisation  simplifies the  control,  administration  and
battle  training  of spetsnaz. But this  structure cannot  be used on  enemy
territory.

     4  See Appendices  for precise organisation  of spetsnaz  at  different
levels.

     The problem is, firstly,  that every  spetsnaz  operation is individual
and unlike any other;  a plan is  worked out  for  each operation,  which is
unlike any other. Each operation consequently requires forces organised, not
in a standard fashion, but adapted to the particular plan.
     Secondly, when it is on enemy territory, a  spetsnaz unit is in  direct
communication with a major headquarters, at the very  least the headquarters
of an all-arm or tank  army, and orders are  received in many cases directly
from a high-level HQ. A very long chain of command is simply not needed.
     On operations  a  simple  and  flexible  chain  of command is used. The
organisational  unit  on  enemy   territory  is   known  officially  as  the
reconnaissance  group  of spetsnaz  (RGSN). A  group is  formed  before  the
beginning of an  operation and  may contain from  two to  thirty men. It can
operate independently or  as part of a detachment (ROSN),  which consists of
between thirty  and  300 or  more  men.  The detachment  contains  groups of
various  sizes  and for various purposes. The names `detachment' and `group'
are used deliberately, to emphasise  the temporary nature of the  units.  In
the course of an operation groups can leave a detachment and join it  again,
and each  group  may  in  turn  break up  into  several  smaller  groups or,
conversely, come  together  with others  into one  big group.  Several large
groups can join up and  form a detachment  which  can at any moment split up
again. The whole process is usually planned before the operation begins. For
example: the drop  may take  place in small groups, perhaps fifteen of  them
altogether.  On the second day  of the operation (D+1)  eight of the  groups
will join up  into  one detachment for a joint raid, while  the rest operate
independently. On D+2 two groups are taken out of the detachment to form the
basis  of a  new detachment and  another six groups  link up with the second
detachment. On D+5 the first detachment splits up into groups and on D+6 the
second group splits up, and so on.  Before the  beginning of  the  operation
each group is informed where and when to meet up with  the other  groups and
what to do in case the rendezvous is not kept.

        ___

     Having  landed in enemy territory spetsnaz may go straight into battle.
Otherwise,  it  will  hide  the equipment  it  no  longer  needs  --  boats,
parachutes, etc -- by  either burying them in the  ground or sinking them in
water. Very often  it will then mine the drop area. The mines are laid where
the unwanted equipment has been buried. The area is also treated with one of
a  number  of substances  which  will confuse  a dog's sense of smell. After
that,  the  group  (of  whatever size) will break up into little  sub-groups
which depart  quickly in different  directions. A meeting  of the sub-groups
will take place  later at a previously  arranged  spot  or,  if  this proves
problematic, at  one  of the  several  alternative  places which  have  been
agreed.
     The drop  area is  usually  the  first place  where  casualties  occur.
However good  the  parachute training  is, leg injuries and fractures are  a
frequent occurrence,  and  when the drop takes place in an unfamiliar place,
in complete darkness,  perhaps in fog, over a forest or mountains, they  are
inevitable. Even built-up areas provide their own hazards. Spetsnaz laws are
simple and easy to understand. In a  case of  serious  injury the  commander
cannot take the  wounded man  with him; doing  so  would greatly reduce  the
group's mobility and might lead to the mission having to be aborted. But the
commander cannot,  equally, leave  the  wounded  man alone.  Consequently  a
simple and logical decision is taken, to kill the wounded man. Spetsnaz  has
a very humane means of killing its wounded soldiers -- a powerful drug known
to the men as `Blessed Death'. An injection with the drug stops the pain and
quickly  produces  a state of  blissful  drowsiness.  In the  event  that  a
commander  decides,  out of misguided humanity, to take the wounded man with
him, and it  looks as  if  this  might jeopardise  the  mission, the  deputy
commander  is  under  orders  to  dispatch  both  the  wounded  man  and the
commander.  The  commander  is  removed without recourse  to  drugs.  It  is
recommended that he be seized from behind with  a hand  over his mouth and a
knife blow to his throat. If the deputy does not deal with  his commander in
this situation, then not just  the commander and  his deputy, but the entire
group may be regarded as traitors, with all the inevitable consequences.
     As they leave the area  of  the drop  the  groups and  sub-groups cover
their tracks, using methods that have been well known for centuries: walking
through  water and over stones,  walking in each other's  footsteps, and  so
forth.  The groups lay more mines behind them and spread more powder against
dogs.
     After  leaving the drop  zone  and having made sure  that  they are not
being followed, the commander gives  orders  for the  organisation of a base
and a reserve base,  safe places concealed from the  view of outsiders. Long
before a  war GRU  officers,  working  abroad  in  the  guise  of diplomats,
journalists, consuls  and  other representatives  of the USSR, choose places
suitable for establishing bases. The  majority of  GRU officers have been at
some  time very closely familiar with spetsnaz, or are  themselves  spetsnaz
officers, or have  worked in the  Intelligence Directorate of  a district or
group of  forces. They know what is needed for  a base to  be convenient and
safe.
     Bases can be of all sorts and  kinds. The ideal base would be  a hiding
place beneath ground  level, with a drainage system, running water, a supply
of food,  a  radio set  to pick up the local  news and some  simple means of
transport. I  have already described how spetsnaz agents, recruited locally,
can establish the more elaborate  bases which  are used by  the professional
groups of  athletes carrying  out  exceptionally  important  tasks.  In  the
majority of cases  the base will be  somewhere like a cave, or  an abandoned
quarry, or an underground passage in  a town, or just a secluded place among
the undergrowth in a dense forest.
     A spetsnaz group can leave at the base all the heavy equipment  it does
not need  immediately.  The  existence of  even  the  most  rudimentary base
enables it to  operate without having to  carry  much with it  in the way of
equipment or supplies. The approaches to the base are always guarded and the
access paths  mined -- the closest with ordinary mines  and the more distant
ones with warning mines which  explode with  much noise  and a bright flash,
alerting any people in the base of approaching danger.
     When the group moves off  to  carry  out its task,  a few  men normally
remain behind to guard the base, choosing convenient observation points from
which to keep an  eye on it. In the event of its being discovered the  guard
leaves the location quietly and makes for the reserve base, leaving warnings
of the danger to the rest of the  group in  an agreed place.  The main group
returning from its  mission  will visit the reserve base first and only then
go to the main base. There is a  double safeguard here: the group  may  meet
the guards in  the  reserve base and so avoid falling into a trap; otherwise
the group will see the warning signals left  by the guards. The craters from
exploded mines around the base may also serve as warnings  of danger. If the
worst comes to the worst, the guards can give warning of danger by radio.
     A spetsnaz  group may also  have a moving base.  Then it can operate at
night, unhampered  by  heavy burdens, while the guards cart  all the group's
heavy equipment along by other routes. Each morning the group  meets up with
its mobile base. The group replenishes its  supplies and then remains behind
to rest or  to set off on another operation, while the base moves to another
place. The  most  unexpected places can be used by  the mobile bases. I once
saw a base  which  looked simply  like  a pile of grass that had been thrown
down in  the middle  of a field. The soldiers' packs and  equipment had been
very  carefully  disguised, and the men guarding the base  were a  kilometre
away, also in a field and camouflaged with grass. All around there were lots
of convenient ravines overgrown with young trees and bushes. That  was where
the KGB and MVD units  were  looking for  the spetsnaz base,  and  where the
helicopters  were circling overhead. It did not occur to anybody that a base
could be right in the middle of an open field.
     In some cases a spetsnaz group may  capture a vehicle for  transporting
its mobile base. It might  be an armoured  personnel carrier, a  truck or an
ordinary car. And if a group is engaged in very intensive fighting involving
frequent changes of location, then no base is organised. In the event of its
being pursued the  group can abandon all  its heavy equipment, having  first
removed the safety pin from the remaining mines.

        ___

     In order  to destroy a target  it  has  first  to  be located.  In  the
overwhelming majority of cases a spetsnaz operation includes  the search for
the  target. This is  understandable, since targets whose location  is known
and which  are not movable can be destroyed easily and quickly with missiles
and  aircraft. But  a great number of  targets  in  present-day fighting are
mobile. On  the eve  of  a  war or just after it has broken out,  government
offices are moved out of a country's capital for secret  command posts whose
location is known to very few people. New  communications centres and  lines
are brought into operation.  Aircraft are removed from stationary aerodromes
and dispersed to airfields  established in places unknown to the enemy. Many
missile installations are moved  to  new  concealed, and carefully  guarded,
locations. Troops and headquarters are also relocated.
     In  these  circumstances  the  search  for targets  acquires  paramount
significance  for  spetsnaz.  To  be  able  to  find  a  target  of  special
importance, to identify it, and to know how to distinguish real targets from
false  ones, become the most important  tasks for  spetsnaz, more  important
even than the destruction of the targets.  Once a target has been discovered
it can be destroyed by other forces -- missiles, aircraft, marines, airborne
troops. But a target that has not been  discovered  cannot  be  destroyed by
anyone.
     Because the business of  identifying targets is the most important task
for spetsnaz it  cannot be a separate  and  independent organisation. It can
carry  out this task only if it relies on all the resources of the GRU,  and
only  if it can  make use of information obtained by agents and from all the
various kinds of razvedka -- satellite, aircraft, naval, electronic, and  so
forth.
     Every  form  of  razvedka  has its good and its  bad  side. A  complete
picture of what is happening can be obtained only by making use of all forms
of  razvedka in close interaction  one  with another,  compensating  for the
weaknesses of some forms with the advantages of the others.
     Every officer  in charge of razvedka uses spetsnaz  only where  its use
can give the very  best result. When  he sends a spetsnaz group behind enemy
lines the officer in command already knows a good deal about the enemy  from
other  sources. He  knows exactly what the unit is to look  for  and roughly
where it has to look. The information obtained by spetsnaz groups (sometimes
only fragmentary and  uncertain) can in  turn be of exceptional value to the
other forms of razvedka and be the starting point for more attentive work in
those areas by agents and other services.
     Only with a union of all forces  and resources is it possible to reveal
the plans and intentions of the enemy, the strength and organisation of  his
forces, and to inflict defeat on him.
     But  let  us return  to  the  commander  of  the  spetsnaz  group  who,
despatching  it to a  particular area, already  knows  a good deal about the
area,  the  specially important targets that  may  be found there, and  even
their  approximate location. This information (or as much  of it as concerns
him)  is passed on to the commander of  the group and his  deputy. The group
has landed safely, covered  its tracks, established  a base and  started its
search. How should it set about it?
     There  are  several tried  and  tested methods.  Each target of special
importance  must  have a communications centre  and  lines of  communication
leading to it. The group may  include  experts at radio razvedka. Let us not
forget  that  spetsnaz is  the 3rd  department  and radio  razvedka  the 5th
department of the same Directorate (the Second) at the headquarters of every
front, fleet,  group  of forces and military  district. Spetsnaz  and  radio
razvedka are very  closely connected and often help  each other, even to the
point of  having  radio  razvedka  experts in spetsnaz groups. By monitoring
radio  transmissions  in  the area  of important  targets it is possible  to
determine quite accurately their whereabouts.
     But it is also possible to discover the target without the aid of radio
razvedka.   The  direction   of  receiving  and   transmitting   aerials  of
tropospheric,  radio-relay and other communication  lines  provides a lot of
information  about  the   location  of  the  terminal  points  on  lines  of
communication. This in turn leads us right up to the command posts and other
targets of great importance.
     Sometimes before a search begins the commander of the group will decide
by the  map  which,  in  his  opinion, are  the  most likely  locations  for
particular targets. His group will examine those areas first of all.
     If the targets are moved, then the roads, bridges, tunnels and mountain
passes where they may be seen are put under observation.
     The search for a particular target can be carried out simultaneously by
several  groups.  In that case the officer in  charge divides  the territory
being searched into squares in each of which one group operates.
     Each group searching a square usually spreads out into a long line with
tens or even hundreds of  metres  between  each man.  Each man moves  by the
compass, trying to keep in sight of his neighbours. They advance in complete
silence. They  choose suitable observation points and  carefully examine the
areas ahead of  them, and if they discover nothing they move on  to  another
hiding place. In  this way relatively  small groups of well trained soldiers
can keep quite extensive areas under observation. Unlike  razvedka conducted
from outer space or the air,  spetsnaz can get right up to  targets and view
them, not from above, but from the  ground. Experience shows that it is much
more difficult to deceive a spetsnaz man with false targets than it is a man
operating an electronic intelligence station  or  an expert at  interpreting
pictures taken from the air or from space.
     Spetsnaz  groups have  recently  begun  to  make  ever greater  use  of
electronic  apparatus for seeking their  targets. They  now  carry  portable
radar, infra-red  and acoustic equipment, night-vision sights, and so forth.
But  whatever new electronic devices  are invented,  they will never replace
the  simplest  and  most  reliable method  of  establishing the  location of
important targets: questioning a prisoner.
     It may be  claimed that  not every prisoner will  agree  to  answer the
questions put to  him, or that some prisoners will answer the questions  put
by  spetsnaz but give wrong answers and lead their interrogators astray.  To
which my reply  is categorical. Everybody answers  questions  from spetsnaz.
There are no exceptions. I have been asked how long a very strong person can
hold out against questioning by spetsnaz, without replying to questions. The
answer is: one second.  If you  don't believe  this, just try  the following
experiment. Get one of your friends who considers himself a strong character
to write on a piece  of paper a  number  known only to himself  and seal the
paper in an envelope. Then tie  your friend to a post or a tree and ask  him
what number he wrote on the paper.  If he  refuses to answer, file his teeth
down with a big file and count the time.  Having  received the  answer, open
the envelope and check  that  he  has given you  the number  written  on the
paper. I guarantee the answer will be correct.
     If you perform such  an  experiment, you  will have  an idea of  one of
spetsnaz's  milder ways  of questioning people. But there are more effective
and reliable ways of making a person talk. Everyone who falls into the hands
of spetsnaz  knows  he is going to be killed. But people exert themselves to
give correct and precise answers.  They are not fighting for their lives but
for an  easy death. Prisoners are generally interrogated  in twos or  larger
groups.  If  one  seems  to know less than  the others, he  can be  used for
demonstration  purposes  to encourage them to  talk.  If the questioning  is
being done in a town the prisoner may have a heated iron placed on his body,
or have his ears pierced with an electric drill, or be cut to pieces with an
electric saw. A man's fingers are particularly sensitive. If the finger of a
man being questioned is simply bent back and the  end of the finger squashed
as it is bent, the pain is unendurable. One method considered very effective
is a form of torture known as `the bicycle'. A man is bound and laid  on his
back.  Pieces  of  paper  (or  cotton  wool   or  rags)  soaked  in  spirit,
eau-de-cologne, etc., are stuck between his fingers and set alight.
     Spetsnaz has a special passion for the sexual organs. If the conditions
permit,  a very  old and simple method  is used  to demonstrate the power of
spetsnaz. The captors drive a big wedge into the trunk of a tree, then force
the victim's  sexual organs into the opening and knock out  the wedge.  They
then proceed to question the other prisoners. At the same time, in  order to
make them  more  talkative,  the principal  spetsnaz  weapon  -- the  little
infantryman's spade -- is used. As spetsnaz  asks its questions the blade of
the  spade  is used  to cut off ears and fingers, to hit the victims  in the
liver  and perform a whole catalogue of unpleasant  operations on the person
under interrogation.
     One  very simple way  of making a  man  talk is known as the `swallow',
well known in Soviet concentration camps. It does not require any weapons or
other instruments, and if  it is used with discretion it does  not leave any
traces on the victim's body. He is laid face down on the ground and his legs
are bent back to bring  his heels as close  as possible to the  back of  his
neck.  The `swallow' generally produces  a straight  answer  in a  matter of
seconds.
     Of course, every method has  its  shortcomings. That is why a commander
uses several methods at the same time. The `swallow' is not usually employed
in  the  early  stages of  an  operation. Immediately  after a  landing, the
commander of a spetsnaz group tries  to use one  really blood-thirsty device
out of his arsenal: cutting a man's  lips with a razor, or breaking his neck
by twisting his head  round.  These  methods are used even  when a  prisoner
obviously has  no information, the aim being to prevent  any possibility  of
any of the  men in the group going over  to  the enemy.  Everyone, including
those who have not  taken part in the torture, knows that after this  he has
no choice:  he  is bound to his  group by  a bloody  understanding  and must
either come out on  top  or die with his group. In case of  surrender he may
have to suffer the same torture as his friends have just used.
     In  recent years the KGB, GRU and spetsnaz have  had the benefit  of an
enormous  training ground  in which  to try out  the effectiveness  of their
methods of questioning:  Afghanistan.  The information received  from  there
describes things which greatly exceed in  skill and inventiveness anything I
have described here. I  am quite deliberately not quoting here interrogation
methods used by the Soviet forces, including spetsnaz, in Afghanistan, which
have been  reported by thoroughly reliable sources. Western journalists have
access to that material and to living witnesses.
     Once it  has obtained  the information  it needs  about the targets  of
interest  to it, the  spetsnaz group  checks  the facts and  then kills  the
prisoners. It  should  be  particularly noted that those who  have told  the
truth  do have an easy death.  They may be shot,  hanged, have their throats
cut  or be  drowned. Spetsnaz  does  not torture anybody  for  the  sake  of
torture. You come  across practically  no sadists  in spetsnaz. If they find
one they quickly get  rid of him. Both the easier and  the tougher  forms of
questioning in  spetsnaz are an  unavoidable evil that the fighting men have
to accept. They use  these methods, not out of  a love  of torturing people,
but as the simplest and most reliable way of obtaining information essential
to their purpose.

        ___

     Having  discovered the  target and  reported  on  it  to their command,
spetsnaz  will in most cases leave the target  area as  quickly as possible.
Very  soon  afterwards,  the  target  will  come under attack  by  missiles,
aircraft or other weapons. In a number of cases, however, the spetsnaz group
will  destroy the target it has discovered itself. They  are often given the
mission in that form: `Find and destroy'. But there are also situations when
the  task is  given as `Find and  report', and the group commander  takes an
independent decision about destroying the  target. He may do so when, having
found  the target,  he  discovers suddenly  that  he  cannot report  to  his
superior officers about  it; and he may  also  do so when he  comes across a
missile ready for firing.
     Robbed of  the chance  or the time to transmit  a report, the commander
has to take  all  possible steps to destroy the target, including ordering a
suicide attack on it. Readiness to carry out a suicide mission is maintained
in spetsnaz  by many methods. One of them  is  to expose obvious sadists and
have them transferred immediately to other  branches  of the forces, because
experience shows that in the overwhelming  majority of cases the sadist is a
coward, incapable of sacrificing himself.
     The  actual  destruction of  targets  is perhaps  the most ordinary and
prosaic  part of the entire operation. VIPs are  usually killed as they  are
being transported  from one place  to another, when they are at  their  most
vulnerable. The weapons include  snipers' rifles, grenade-launchers or mines
laid in the roadway. If a VIP enjoys travelling by  helicopter  it is a very
simple matter. For one thing, a single helicopter is a better  target than a
number of  cars, when  the  terrorists do  not know  exactly which car their
victim is travelling in.  Secondly,  even  minor damage to a helicopter will
bring it down and almost certainly kill the VIP.
     Missiles  and aircraft  are  also  attacked  with snipers'  rifles  and
grenade-launchers  of  various  kinds. One  bullet hole in a  missile or  an
aircraft  can put  it out of  action.  If  he cannot  hit his target  from a
distance the commander of the group will attack, usually from two sides. His
deputy  will attack with one  group of men from one side, trying to  make as
much  noise and  gunfire  as  possible,  while the other  group  led  by the
commander will move, noiselessly, as close to the  target as it  can.  It is
obvious that an  attack by a small spetsnaz group  on a well defended target
is suicide. But spetsnaz will do  it. The fact is that  even an unsuccessful
attack on a  missile ready for firing will force the  enemy to  re-check the
whole missile and  all its supporting equipment for faults. This  may  delay
the  firing  for valuable hours, which in a nuclear war might be long enough
to alter the course of the conflict.

--------

      Chapter 12. Control and Combined Operations



     If  we describe the modern infantryman in  battle and leave it at that,
then, however accurate the description, the picture will be  incomplete. The
modern infantryman should never just be described  independently, because he
never  operates independently.  He operates in the closest co-operation with
tanks; his way forward is laid by sappers; the  artillery and air force work
in  his interests; he may be  helped in his fighting by helicopter gunships;
ahead of him there are reconnaissance and parachute units; and behind him is
an  enormous  organisation  to  support  and  service  him,  from  supplying
ammunition to evacuating the wounded quickly.
     To  understand  the  strength of  spetsnaz  one  has  to  remember that
spetsnaz is  primarily  reconnaissance,  forces  which  gather  and transmit
information to their commanders to which their commanders immediately react.
The strength of those reconaissance forces lies in  the  fact that they have
behind them the  whole  of the  nuclear  might of the USSR. It  may be  that
before the appearance of spetsnaz on enemy territory,  a nuclear  blow  will
already have been  made, and  despite the  attendant  dangers,  this greatly
improves the position of the  fighting groups, because the enemy is  clearly
not going to bother with them. In other circumstances the groups will appear
on enemy territory and obtain information required by the Soviet  command or
amplify it, enabling an immediate nuclear strike to follow. A nuclear strike
close  to where a spetsnaz group is operating  is  theoretically regarded as
the salvation of  the group.  When  there  are  ruins and fires all round, a
state of  panic and the usual links  and standards have broken down, a group
can operate almost openly without any fear of capture.
     Similarly, Soviet  command  may choose to  deploy other weapons  before
spetsnaz begins operations  or immediately after a group makes  its landing:
chemical weapons,  air  attacks or bombardment  of the coastline with  naval
artillery. There is a co-operative principle at work here. Such actions will
give  the  spetsnaz  groups  enormous moral  and physical  support.  And the
reverse is also true -- the operations of a  group in a  particular area and
the  information  it provides  will  make the  strike by Soviet forces  more
accurate and effective.
     In the course of a war direct co-operation is the most dependable  form
of  co-operation. For example, the military commander of a front  has learnt
through his network of agents (the second department of  the 2nd Directorate
at front headquarters) or from other sources that there is in a certain area
a  very important but mobile target  which  keeps changing its position.  He
appoints one of his air force  divisions to destroy  the target. A  spetsnaz
group (or  groups)  is appointed to direct the  division to  the target. The
liaison  between  the  groups and  the air  force  division  is  better  not
conducted through  the front headquarters,  but  directly.  The air division
commander is told very briefly what the groups are capable of, and  they are
then handed  over to his command. They are dropped behind enemy  lines  and,
while they are carrying out the operation, they maintain direct contact with
their divisional headquarters. After  the strike on the  target the spetsnaz
group -- if it has survived -- returns immediately  to the direct control of
the front headquarters, to remain there until it  needs to be put under  the
command of some other force as decided by the front commander.

        ___

     Direct co-operation is a  cornerstone of  Soviet strategy and practised
widely  on manoeuvres, especially  at the  strategic  level1,  when spetsnaz
groups  from   regiments  of   professional  athletes  are  subordinated  to
commanders of, for example,  the strategic  missile  troops or the strategic
(long-range) aviation.

     1 See Appendix D for the organisation of spetsnaz at strategic level.

     For the  main principle governing Soviet strategy is the  concentration
of colossal forces against the  enemy's  most vulnerable spot. Soviet troops
will  strike a super-powerful,  sudden blow and then force their way rapidly
ahead. In  this situation, or immediately before it, a mass drop of spetsnaz
units will be carried out ahead of and on the flanks of the advancing force,
or in places that have to be neutralised for the success of the operation on
the main line of advance.
     Spetsnaz  units at army level2, on the other hand,  are dropped  in the
areas of operations of their own armies at a depth of 100 to 500 kilometres;
and spetsnaz units  under the command of the fronts3 are dropped in the area
of operations of their fronts at a depth of between 500 and 1000 kilometres.

     2 See Appendix A.

     3 See Appendix B.

     The  headquarters to  which  the group  is  subordinated tries  not  to
interfere  in  the  operations of  the spetsnaz  group, reckoning  that  the
commander on the spot  can see  and understand the situation better than can
people at  headquarters far from  where  the  events  are taking place.  The
headquarters will intervene if it becomes necessary to redirect it to attack
a more important target or if a strike is to take place where it is located.
But a warning may not be given if the group is not going to have time to get
away from  the strike area, since  all  such  warnings  carry  the  risk  of
revealing Soviet intentions to the enemy.
     Co-operation between  different groups of  spetsnaz  is carried  out by
means of a  distribution of territories for operations  by different groups,
so that simultaneous  blows can be  struck  in different areas  if  need be.
Co-operation  can also be carried out by forward headquarters at  battalion,
regiment and brigade  level,  dropped behind the  lines to co-ordinate major
spetsnaz forces in an area.  Because spetsnaz organisation is so flexible, a
group which  has landed  by chance in another  group's  operational area can
quickly be  brought  under the latter's command by an  order from a superior
headquarters.

        ___

     In the course of a  war other Soviet units apart from spetsnaz  will be
operating in enemy territory:

     Deep reconnaissance companies from the reconnaissance battalions of the
motor-rifle and tank divisions. Both in their function and the  tactics they
adopt,  these  companies  are  practically  indistinguishable  from  regular
spetsnaz. The  difference  lies in the fact that these companies  do not use
parachutes but  penetrate behind the enemy's lines in helicopters, jeeps and
armoured reconnaissance  vehicles. Deep reconnaissance units do not  usually
co-operate with spetsnaz. But their operations,  up to 100 kilometres behind
the front line,  make it possible to concentrate spetsnaz activity deeper in
the  enemy's  rear  without having  to divert it  to operations  in the zone
nearer the front.
     Air-assault  brigades at front level operate independently, but in some
cases spetsnaz units may direct the  combat helicopters to their targets. It
is sometimes possible to have joint operations conducted by men dropped from
helicopters  and  to  use   helicopters  from  an  air-assault  brigade  for
evacuating the wounded and prisoners.
     Airborne  divisions  operate  in  accordance  with  the  plans  of  the
commander-in-chief. If difficulties  arise with the delivery of  supplies to
their units, they switch  to partisan combat tactics.  Co-operation  between
airborne  divisions  and  spetsnaz units is not normally organised, although
large-scale drops  in  the enemy's  rear create  a favourable situation  for
operations by all spetsnaz units.
     Naval  infantry are commanded by the same commander as naval  spetsnaz:
every  fleet  commander has one  brigade  of the latter  and a  brigade  (or
regiment) of infantry.  Consequently these two formations, both intended for
operations in the enemy's rear,  co-operate very closely. Normally  when the
naval  infantry makes  a landing on an enemy  coastline,  their operation is
preceded by, or accompanied by, spetsnaz operations in the same area. Groups
of naval  spetsnaz  can, of  course,  operate  independently  of  the  naval
infantry if  they  need  to, especially in  cases where  the operations  are
expected to  be  in remote  areas  requiring special skills  of survival  or
concealment.

     There  are  two  specific  sets  of  circumstances  in  which  superior
headquarters organises direct co-operation between  all  units  operating in
the  enemy  rear.  The  first  is when a  combined  attack offers  the  only
possibility of destroying  or capturing the  target,  and the second is when
Soviet  units in  the enemy  rear have suffered  substantial  losses and the
Soviet command decides to make up improvised  groups out of the  remnants of
the ragged units that are left.

        ___

     In  the course of  an  advance spetsnaz  groups,  as might be expected,
co-operate very closely with the forward detachments.
     A Soviet advance -- a sudden break through the defences of the enemy in
several places and the rapid forward movement of masses of troops, supported
by an equal mass  of aircraft and helicopters -- is always co-ordinated with
a  simultaneous strike in the rear of the enemy by spetsnaz forces, airborne
troops and naval infantry.
     In other armies different criteria are applied to measure a commander's
success -- for example,  what percentage of  the  enemy's forces  have  been
destroyed by his troops. In the Soviet Army this is of secondary importance,
and may be of no importance at all, because a commander's value is judged by
one criterion only: the speed with which his troops advance.
     To  take the speed of  advance  as the sole  measure of  a  commander's
abilities is not so  stupid as  it might seem at  first glance. As a guiding
principle it forces all  commanders to  seek, find and exploit  the  weakest
spots in the enemy's defences. It obliges  the commander to turn the enemy's
flank  and to avoid  getting caught up  in  unnecessary skirmishes.  It also
makes commanders  make use of theoretically  impassable  areas to get to the
rear of the enemy, instead of battering at his defences.
     To  find the  enemy's  weak spots  a commander will send reconnaissance
groups ahead,  and  forward  detachments  which  he has  assembled  for  the
duration of the advance. Every  commander of a regiment, division, army and,
in some  cases, of  a front will  form  his  own  forward  detachment. In  a
regiment the detachment normally includes a  motor-rifle company with a tank
platoon  (or  a  tank company  with a motor-rifle  platoon);  a  battery  of
self-propelled howitzers; an anti-aircraft platoon; and an anti-tank platoon
and sapper  and chemical warfare units. In a  division it will consist  of a
motor-rifle  or  tank  battalion,  with  a  tank  or motor-rifle  company as
appropriate; an artillery battalion; anti-aircraft and anti-tank  batteries;
and a  company of sappers and some  support units. In  an army  the scale is
correspondingly greater: two or  three  motor-rifle battalions;  one  or two
tank  battalions;  two  or   three  artillery  battalions,  a  battalion  of
multi-barrelled  rocket   launchers;   a  few  anti-aircraft  batteries;  an
anti-tank battalion; and  sappers and chemical warfare troops. Where a front
makes up  its  own  forward detachment it will consist of several regiments,
most of them tank  regiments. The success of each general (i.e. the speed at
which he  advances) is determined by  the speed of his  very best units.  In
practice this means that  it  is determined by the operations of the forward
detachment which he sends into battle. Thus every general assembles his best
units  for  that  crucial detachment, puts his  most  determined officers in
command, and puts at their disposal a large slice of his reinforcements. All
this  makes the  forward detachment into  a concentration of the strength of
the main forces.
     It  often happens that very high-ranking generals are put in command of
relatively small detachments. For example, the forward detachment of the 3rd
Guards Tank  Army  in the Prague operation  was  commanded by General  I. G.
Ziberov,  who  was deputy chief of staff. (The  detachment consisted  of the
69th mechanised brigade, the 16th self-propelled artillery brigade, the 50th
motorcycle regiment, and the 253rd independent penal company).
     Every forward detachment is certainly  very vulnerable.  Let us imagine
what  the first  day of  a  war  in  Europe would  be like,  when  the  main
concentration of Soviet troops has succeeded  in  some places in making very
small breaches in the defences of  the forces of the Western  powers. Taking
advantage of  these  breaches,  and of  any  other  opportunities offered --
blunders by  the enemy, unoccupied sectors and the like  --  about a hundred
forward  detachments  of  regiments, about twenty-five more powerful forward
detachments  of  divisions, and  about  eight  even  more  powerful  forward
detachments  from armies have penetrated into  the rear  of the NATO forces.
None of them has  got  involved in the  fighting.  They are not in the least
concerned about their rear or  their  flanks. They  are simply  racing ahead
without looking back.
     This is very similar to  the Vistula-Oder operation of 1945, on the eve
of  which Marshal  G. K. Zhukov assembled  all sixty-seven commanders of the
forward  detachments  and demanded  of  each  one:  100  kilometres  forward
progress   on  the  first  day  of  the  operation.  A  hundred  kilometres,
irrespective  of how the  main forces  were operating, and  irrespective  of
whether the main forces succeeded in  breaking through the enemy's defences.
Every  commander  who  advanced  a hundred  kilometres  on the first  day or
averaged seventy kilometres a day  for the first four days would receive the
highest award -- the Gold Star of a  Hero of the Soviet  Union. Everybody in
the  detachment  would receive  a decoration,  and  all the  men  undergoing
punishment  (every  forward detachment has on  its strength anything from  a
company  to a battalion's worth of  such men  riding  on  the outside of the
tanks) would have their offences struck out.
     Say  what you like about the lack of initiative in Soviet soldiers  and
officers. Just imagine giving men from a penal battalion such a task. If you
succeed in  not  getting  involved  in  the fighting, and if  you  manage to
outflank the  enemy and keep moving, we will strike out  all  your offences.
Get involved in fighting and you will not only shed your blood, you will die
a criminal too.
     Operations  by Soviet forward detachments  are  not restrained  by  any
limitations. `The operations of forward detachments  must be independent and
not restricted by  the dividing lines,'  the  Soviet  Military Encyclopaedia
declares. The fact that the forward detachments may be cut off from the main
force should not deter  them. For example,  on  the advance  in Manchuria in
1945 the 6th Guards Tank Army advanced  rapidly towards  the  ocean,  having
crossed the desert, the  apparently impregnable  Khingan mountain  range and
the rice fields, and covering 810 kilometres in eleven days. But ahead of it
were forward detachments, operating continually, which had rushed 150 to 200
kilometres ahead of the main force. When the officer in command of the front
learnt of this spurt  ahead (by quite unprotected detachments, which  really
had  not  a  single  support  vehicle  with  them),  he  did not  order  the
detachments to slow down; on the contrary, he ordered them to increase their
speed still  further, and not to  worry about the distance separating  them,
however great it was.  The more  the forward detachments were separated from
the main force, the better. The more unsuspected  and strange the appearance
of Soviet  troops seems to the enemy,  the greater the  panic  and  the more
successful  the  operations of both the  forward  detachments  and the  main
Soviet troops.
     Forward  detachments were of enormous  importance in the  last war. The
speed  at  which  our  troops advanced reached at times  eighty to a hundred
kilometres a day. Such a  speed of advance in operations on such an enormous
scale causes surprise even today. But it must always be remembered that this
terrible  rate of  advance  was to  a great  extent  made  possible  by  the
operations of the forward detachments. These  are the words  of Army-General
I.I. Gusakovsky, the same general who from  January  to April 1945, from the
Vistula to Berlin  itself,  commanded  the  forward detachment  of  the 11th
Guards Tank Corps and the whole of the 1st Guards Tank Army.
     In the last war the  forward  detachments  pierced the enemy's defences
with dozens of spearheads  at  the same  time, and  the  main body of troops
followed  in their  tracks. The forward detachments then  destroyed  in  the
enemy's rear only targets that were easy to destroy, and in many cases moved
forward quickly  enough to capture  bridges before they  were  blown up. The
reason the enemy  had not  blown them  up was because  his  main forces were
still wholly engaged against the main forces of the Red Army.
     The role played by forward detachments has greatly increased  in modern
warfare. All Soviet military exercises are aimed at improving the operations
of forward detachments. There are two very  good reasons why the role of the
forward detachments has grown in importance. The first is, predictably, that
war  has acquired a nuclear  dimension. Nuclear  weapons  (and other  modern
means  of  fighting)  need  to  be  discovered and destroyed at the earliest
possible  opportunity. And  the  more  Soviet  troops  there  are  on  enemy
territories,  the  less  likelihood  there is of  their  being destroyed  by
nuclear weapons. It will always be difficult for the enemy to make a nuclear
strike against his own rear where not only are his own forces operating, and
which  are inhabited but where  a  strike  would  also  be  against his  own
civilian population.
     A forward detachment, rushing far ahead  and seeking out and destroying
missile batteries, airfields, headquarters and communication lines resembles
spetsnaz both  in character  and  in  spirit.  It usually  has no  transport
vehicles at all. It carries only what can be found room for in the tanks and
armoured transporters, and its operations may  last only a short time, until
the  fuel  in  the tanks  gives  out. All  the same, the daring and  dashing
actions of the detachments will break up  the  enemy's  defences,  producing
chaos and panic in his rear, and creating conditions in which the main force
can operate with far greater chances of success.
     In  principle spetsnaz  does exactly the same. The  difference is  that
spetsnaz  groups  have   greater  opportunities  for  discovering  important
targets,   whereas  forward  detachments  have  greater  opportunities  than
spetsnaz for destroying  them. Which is why the  forward  detachment of each
regiment is  closely linked  up  with the regiment's reconnaissance  company
secretly operating deep inside the enemy's defences. Similarly, the  forward
detachments of  divisions are linked directly with divisional reconnaissance
battalions, receiving  a great deal  of information from  them and, by their
swift reactions, creating better operating conditions for the reconnaissance
battalions.
     The  forward  detachment of  an army,  usually led  by  the deputy army
commander, will be operating at the same  time as the army's spetsnaz groups
who will have been  dropped 100 to 500 kilometres ahead. This means that the
forward detachment  may  find  itself  in the same  operational area  as the
army's spetsnaz groups as early as forty-eight hours after the start of  the
operation. At that point  the  deputy army  commander will establish  direct
contact with the spetsnaz groups, receiving information from them, sometimes
redirecting  groups to more important targets  and areas, helping the groups
and receiving help from them. The spetsnaz group may, for example, capture a
bridge and hold it for a  very short time. The forward detachment simply has
to be able to move fast enough to get to the bridge and take over with  some
of its men. The  spetsnaz group will stay at  the bridge, while the  forward
detachment runs ahead, and then,  after  the main body of Soviet  forces has
arrived at the bridge  the  spetsnaz group will again,  after  briefing,  be
dropped by parachute far ahead.
     Sometimes spetsnaz at  the front level will operate in the interests of
the army's forward detachments, in  which case the  army's own spetsnaz will
turn its attention to the most  successful forward detachments of the army's
divisions.
     Forward detachments  are  a  very powerful weapon in  the hands  of the
Soviet commanders, who have great experience in  deploying them. They are in
reality the best units of  the  Soviet Army and  in the course of an advance
will  operate not  only in a  similar  way  to spetsnaz, but  in  very close
collaboration with it too.  The success of operations by spetsnaz groups  in
strategic  warfare  depends ultimately  on the skill and fighting ability of
dozens  of  forward detachments  which carry  out  lightning  operations  to
overturn the enemy's plans and frustrate his attempts to locate and  destroy
the spetsnaz groups.

--------

      Chapter 13. Spetsnaz and Deception



     Secrecy and  disinformation are the most effective weapons in the hands
of  the Soviet  Army  and the  whole  Communist  system.  With  the  aim  of
protecting   military   secrets  and  of  disinforming  the  enemy  a  Chief
Directorate of Strategic  Camouflage (GUSM) was  set up  within  the  Soviet
General Staff in the 1960s. The Russian  term for `camouflage' -- maskirovka
-- is, like the  word razvedka, impossible to translate directly. Maskirovka
means everything  relating to the preservation of secrets and  to giving the
enemy a false idea  of the plans and intentions of the  Soviet high command.
Maskirovka  has a broader  meaning than  `deception' and  `camouflage' taken
together.
     The GUSM and the GRU use different methods in their work but operate on
the same battlefield. The demands made of the officers of both organisations
are  more or less identical. The most important of  these demands are: to be
able  to speak foreign languages  fluently; and to know the enemy. It was no
coincidence that when the GUSM was set up many senior  officers and generals
of the GRU were transferred to it. General Moshe Milshtein was one  of them,
and he  had been one of the most successful heads  the GRU had had; he spent
practically the whole of his  career in the  West  as an illegal1. Milshtein
speaks English, French  and German fluently, and possibly other languages as
well. He  is the author of  a  secret textbook for  GRU officers entitled An
Honourable Service.  I  frequently  attended  lectures  given by  him  about
operations  by Soviet `illegals' and the theory  upon which the practice  of
disinformation is based. But even the briefest study of the writings of this
general  in Soviet military  journals,  in  the Military-Historical  Journal
(VIZ) for example, reveals that he is one of the  outstanding Soviet experts
in the field of espionage and disinformation.

     1 See Viktor Suvorov, Soviet Military Intelligence (London, 1984).
        ___

     The GUSM  is vast. It is continually  gathering  a colossal  number  of
facts on three key subjects:

     1. What the West knows about us.
     2. What the West shows us it does not know.
     3. What the West is trying to find out.

     The GUSM has  long-term plans covering what must be concealed and  what
must have attention drawn to it in  the Soviet Army and armaments  industry.
The experts of the GUSM  are  constantly fabricating material  so  that  the
enemy should draw the  wrong conclusions from  the  authentic information in
his possession.
     The extent of the powers given to the GUSM can be judged  from the fact
that at the beginning of the 1970s REB osnaz  (radio-electronic warfare) was
transferred  from the control of the KGB to the control of  the GUSM, though
still preserving the name osnaz.
     There are very  close  links existing between the GUSM and  the GRU and
between spetsnaz and the REB osnaz. In peacetime  the REB osnaz transmits by
radio `top-secret' instructions from some  Soviet headquarters to others. In
time of war spetsnaz operations  against  headquarters and centres and lines
of  communications are conducted in the  closest co-operation with  the  REB
osnaz, which is ready to connect  up with the enemy's lines of communication
to transmit false information. An example of  such an operation was provided
in  the  manoeuvres  of the Ural military  district when  a spetsnaz company
operated against a major headquarters. Spetsnaz groups cut the communication
lines  and `destroyed' the headquarters  and  at  the same time an REB osnaz
company hooked into the enemy's lines and began transmitting instructions to
the enemy in the name of the headquarters that had been wiped out.

        ___

     Even  in peacetime  the GUSM operates in  a  great variety of ways. For
example,  the Soviet  Union  derives  much  benefit from  the  activities of
Western pacifists.  A fictitious pacifist  movement  has  been set up in the
Soviet Union and Professor  Chazov,  the personal  physician of  the General
Secretary of the Communist Party, has  been made head of it. There are  some
who say that the movement is controlled by the Soviet leadership through the
person of Chazov. Chazov, in addition to being responsible for the health of
the General Secretary, is a member of the Central Committee of the Communist
Party, i.e.  one of the leaders who  has  real power in his hands. There are
very few people who can manipulate him.
     The mighty machinery of the GUSM was brought into operation in order to
give this Communist leader  some publicity. General  Moshe Milshtein himself
arrived in London in April 1982 to attend a conference of doctors opposed to
nuclear  warfare.  There  were  many  questions that had  to  be put to  the
general. What did he have to do with medicine? Where had he  served, in what
regiments and divisions? Where  had  he come by his  genuine English accent?
Did  all  Soviet  generals  speak such  good  English?  And were all  Soviet
generals allowed to travel to Great Britain and conduct pacifist propaganda,
or was it a privilege granted to a select few?
     The result of this publicity stunt  by  the  GUSM  is well known -- the
`pacifist' Chazov,  who  has never once been known to condemn the  murder of
children in Afghanistan or the  presence of Soviet troops in Czechoslovakia,
and who  persecutes opponents of  Communism in the USSR,  received the Nobel
Prize.
     `But,' as Stalin said, `in  order to prepare new wars pacifism alone is
not enough.'2 That is why  the Soviet leaders are preparing for another  war
not only  with  the aid of the  pacifists  but with  the help  of many other
people and organisations which, knowingly or unwittingly, spread information
which has been `made in the GUSM'.

     2 Leningradskaya Pravda, 14 July 1928.

        ___

     One of the  sources  spreading Soviet military  disinformation  is  the
GRU's network of agents, and in particular the agents of spetsnaz.
     In the preparation  of a strategic operation the  GUSM's most important
task is to  ensure that the  operation is  totally  unexpected by the enemy,
particularly the place where it is to take place and the  time it is  due to
start; its nature, and the weapons the troops will be  using; and the number
of troops and  scope of the operation. All these elements must be planned so
that the enemy has not prepared to resist. This is achieved by many years of
intensive effort on the part  of the GUSM at concealment. But concealment is
twofold:  the  GUSM will,  for  example, conceal from the enemy advances  in
Soviet military science and the armaments industry,  and  at  the same  time
demonstrate what the enemy wants to see.
     This  would provide  material for  a  separate  and  lengthy  piece  of
research. Here we are dealing only with spetsnaz and with what the GUSM does
in connection  with spetsnaz.  GUSM experts have developed  a  whole  system
aimed  at preventing the enemy from being aware of the existence of spetsnaz
and ensuring that he should have a very limited idea of its strength and the
nature of the operations it will conduct. Some of the steps it takes we have
already seen. To summarise:

     1. Every prospective member of  spetsnaz  is secretly  screened for his
general reliability long before he is called into the Army.
     2.  Every  man  joining  spetsnaz or  the GRU has  to  sign  a document
promising  not to reveal the secret of its  existence. Any violation of this
undertaking is punished as spying -- by the death sentence.
     3.  Spetsnaz units do not have their own  uniform, their own  badges or
any other distinguishing mark, though  it very often uses the uniform of the
airborne troops  and  their  badges. Naval spetsnaz wear the uniform of  the
naval infantry  although  they  have  nothing  in  common with  that  force.
Spetsnaz  units operating  midget  submarines  wear  the  usual  uniform  of
submariners. When they are in the countries of  Eastern  Europe the spetsnaz
units wear the uniform of signals troops.
     4. Not  a  single  spetsnaz unit is quartered separately. They  are all
accommodated in  military  settlements  along with airborne  or  air-assault
troops.  In  the  Navy spetsnaz  units  are  accommodated  in  the  military
settlements of the naval infantry. The fact  that they wear the same uniform
and go  through  roughly the same kind  of  battle  training makes  it  very
difficult to detect spetsnaz. In Eastern Europe spetsnaz is located close to
important headquarters because it is convenient to have  them along with the
signals troops.  In the event of their being moved  to  military settlements
belonging to other branches of  the forces spetsnaz units immediately change
uniform.
     Agent  units  in  spetsnaz are installed near  specially  well-defended
targets -- missile bases, penal battalions and nuclear ammunition stores.
     5.  In  the various  military districts and  groups  of forces spetsnaz
troops are  known by different  names -- as  reidoviki  (`raiders') in  East
Germany, and  as  okhotniki (`hunters')  in the Siberian  military district.
Spetsnaz  soldiers  from different  military  districts  who meet by  chance
consider  themselves  as  part of different  organisations. The common label
spetsnaz is used only by officers among themselves.
     6. Spetsnaz does not  have  its own schools or academies.  The  officer
class  is  trained at  the Kiev Higher Combined  Officers'  Training  School
(reconnaissance faculty) and  at  the Ryazan Higher Airborne School (special
faculty). It is  practically  impossible  to distinguish  a spetsnaz student
among the students of  other faculties.  Commanding  officers  and  officers
concerned with  agent  work are trained at the  Military-Diplomatic  Academy
(the GRU  Academy). I have already mentioned the use made of sports sections
and teams for camouflaging the professional core of spetsnaz.

     There are many other ways of  concealing  the presence of spetsnaz in a
particular region and the existence of spetsnaz as a whole.
     In  spetsnaz  everyone  has  his  own  nickname.  As  in  the  criminal
underworld or  at school, a person does not  choose his own nickname, but is
given it by others. A man  may have several at the outset, then some of them
are  dropped until  there remains only the  one  that  sounds best  and most
pleases the people he works with. The use of nicknames greatly increases the
chances  of  keeping  spetsnaz  operations  secret.  The  nicknames  can  be
transmitted by radio without any danger. A good friend of mine was given the
nickname Racing Pig. Suppose the head of Intelligence in a district sent the
following radiogram, uncyphered: `Racing  Pig  to  go to post No.  10.' What
could that tell  an enemy  if he  intercepted  it?  On the  other hand,  the
commander  of the  group will know the message is  genuine, that it has been
sent by one of his own  men and  nobody  else. Spetsnaz  seldom makes use of
radio, and, if the head of Intelligence had  to speak to the  group again he
would not repeat the name but would say another name to the deputy commander
of the group: `Dog's Heart to take orders from Gladiolus,' for example.
     Before making  a jump behind enemy  lines, in  battle or in training, a
spetsnaz soldier will  hand over  to his company sergeant all his documents,
private letters, photographs,  everything he  does not need  on the campaign
and everything that might enable  someone to determine what unit  he belongs
to, his  name, and so  on. The  spetsnaz soldier  has no  letters  from  the
Russian alphabet on his clothes or footwear. There may be some figures which
indicate the  number he is known by in the Soviet armed  forces, but that is
all. An interesting point is that there are two letters in that number,  and
for the spetsnaz soldier they always select letters which are common to both
the Latin and Cyrillic alphabets -- A, K, X, and so  forth. An enemy  coming
across the corpse  of a spetsnaz  soldier will  find no evidence  that it is
that of  a Soviet soldier. One could, of  course,  guess, but the man  could
just as easily be a Bulgar, a Pole or a Czech.

        ___

     Spetsnaz operates in  exceptionally  unfavourable  conditions.  It  can
survive and carry out  a  given mission  only if  the  enemy's attention  is
spread over a vast area and  he does  not know where the main blow is  to be
struck.
     With  this  aim,  drops of large  numbers  of spetsnaz troops  are  not
carried  out in a single area but in smaller numbers and in several areas at
the  same time. The  dropping zones  may be  separated  from  each  other by
hundreds  of  kilometres,  and apart  from the main areas  of  operation for
spetsnaz other, subsidiary areas are chosen as well: these are areas of real
interest  to spetsnaz, so as to make the enemy believe that that is the area
where  the main spetsnaz threat is  likely to appear, and they are chosen as
carefully as the  main ones. The decision  as to which area  will be a prime
one and  which a subsidiary is taken  by the high command on the very eve of
the operation. Sometimes circumstances  change so rapidly  that  a change in
the  area of  operation may  take place even  as the planes are  over  enemy
territory.
     The  deception  of the enemy  over the  main  and  subsidiary areas  of
operation begins with the deception of the men taking part in the operation.
Companies,  battalions,  regiments  and brigades exist  as  single  fighting
units.  But  during  the period of  training  for  the operation, groups and
detachments are formed  in accordance with the actual situation and to carry
out a specific task. The  strength and armament  of each group is worked out
specially. Before carrying out an operation every detachment and every group
is isolated  from the other  groups and detachments and is trained  to carry
out the operation planned for that  particular group. The commander and  his
deputy  are given  the exact  area of operations  and are given  information
about  enemy operations  in the  given area  and about  operations  there by
spetsnaz groups and detachments. Sometimes this information is very detailed
(if groups and detachments  have to operate  jointly), at others it  is only
superficial, just enough to  prevent neighbouring commanders getting in each
other's way.
     Sometimes the  commander of a group  or detachment  is  told the truth,
sometimes he is deceived. A  spetsnaz officer knows that he can be deceived,
and that he cannot always detect with any certainty what is true and what is
a lie.
     Commanders of groups and detachments who are to take part in operations
in reserve areas are  usually told that their area is  the main  one and the
most important, that there  is already a large force  of spetsnaz  operating
there or that such a force will soon appear there. The commander of  a group
that is operating in  the main area may be told, on the contrary, that apart
from  his  groups  there  are  very  few   groups  operating  in  the  area.
Irrespective of what the comander is told he is  given quite specific tasks,
for whose accomplishment he answers with his head in the most literal sense.
     In  any operation the GRU  high command keeps a spetsnaz reserve on its
own territory. Even in the course  of  the operation some groups may receive
an order to withdraw from  the main  areas  into the reserve areas. Spetsnaz
reserves may be dropped into the reserve areas, which then become main areas
of  operations. In  this  way  the enemy obtains information about  spetsnaz
simultaneously in many areas, and it is exceptionally difficult to determine
where the main  areas  and where  the  reserve  ones  are. Consequently  the
enemy's main  forces  may  be  thrown  against  relatively  small groups and
detachments which are conducting real military operations but which are none
the less a false target for the  enemy. Even if the  enemy establishes which
are the main areas of spetsnaz operations the enemy  may be  too  late. Many
spetsnaz groups and detachments will  already be leaving the area, but those
that remain there will  be ordered to step up their activity; the enemy thus
gets  the impression that this  area  is still the  main  one. So  as not to
dispel  this  illusion, the  groups remaining in the area are ordered by the
Soviet high command to prepare to receive fresh spetsnaz reinforcements, are
sent increased  supplies and are continually told  that  they are doing  the
main job. But they are not told that  their  comrades left the area long ago
for a reserve area that has now become a main one.
     At  the same time as the main and reserve areas are chosen, false areas
of operations for spetsnaz are set.  A false,  or phoney, area is created in
the  following way.  A small  spetsnaz  group  with a considerable supply of
mines  is  dropped  into the  area  secretly.  The group  lays the  mines on
important targets, setting  the detonators in such a  way that all the mines
will blow up at roughly the same time. Then automatic radio transmitters are
fixed up in  inaccessible places which are also  carefully mined. This done,
the spetsnaz group withdraws from the  area and gets involved  in operations
in a quite  different place. Then another spetsnaz group is dropped into the
same area with the task of carrying out an especially daring operation.
     This group is told that  it is to  be operating in  an area of  special
importance  where  there are many other groups  also operating. At an agreed
moment the  Soviet  air force contributes a  display of  activity  over  the
particular area. For  this purpose real  planes  are  used,  which have just
finished dropping genuine groups in another area. The route  they follow has
to be deliberately  complicated, with several phoney places where they  drop
torn  parachutes  and  shroud-lines, airborne  troops' equipment,  boxes  of
ammunition, tins of food, and so forth.
     Next  day the enemy observes the following scene. In  an  area of dense
forest in which  there are important targets there are obvious traces of the
presence of Soviet  parachutists. In many places in the  same area there had
been simultaneous explosions. In broad daylight a group of Soviet terrorists
had  stopped the  car of  an  important official  on  the road and  brutally
murdered him and  got away with his case full of documents. At the same time
the  enemy  had  noted  throughout the  area  a  high  degree of activity by
spetsnaz  radio  transmitters  using  a  system  of  rapid  and  super-rapid
transmission which made it very difficult to trace them. What does the enemy
general have to do, with all these facts on his desk?
     To lead the enemy further  astray spetsnaz uses human dummies,  clothed
in uniform and appropriately equipped. The dummies are dropped in such a way
that the enemy sees  the drop but cannot immediately find the landing place.
For this purpose the drop is carried out  over mountains or forests, but far
away from inhabited  places and places where the enemy's troops are located.
The drops are usually made at dawn,  sunset or on  a moonlit night. They are
never made in broad daylight because it is then seen to be  an obvious piece
of deception, while on a dark night the drop may not be noticed at all.
     The enemy will obviously discover first the dummies in the  areas which
are the main places for spetsnaz operations. The presence of the dummies may
raise doubts in  the enemy's mind about whether the dummies indicate that it
is not a false target area but the very reverse.... The most important thing
is to  disorient  the  enemy  completely.  If there are  few spetsnaz forces
available,  then  it must be  made  to appear that  there  are  lots of them
around. If there are plenty of them,  it should be made to appear that there
are  very few.  If their mission is to destroy aircraft it  must look as  if
their main target is a power station, and vice versa. Sometimes a group will
lay  mines  on  targets covering  a  long distance,  such as oil  pipelines,
electricity  power lines,  roads and bridges along the roads. In  such cases
they set the first detonators to go off with a very long  delay  and as they
advance they  make the delay steadily shorter.  The group then withdraws  to
one side  and  changes  its direction of advance completely. The  successive
explosions then take place in the opposite direction to the one in which the
group was moving.
     Along with operations in the  main, reserve  and false areas there  may
also be operations by spetsnaz professional groups working in conditions  of
special secrecy. The Soviet air force plays no part in such operations. Even
if the groups are dropped by parachute it takes place some distance away and
the groups leave the drop zone secretly. Relatively small but very carefully
trained  groups  of professional athletes  are  chosen  for such operations.
Their movements  can  be  so carefully  concealed  that  even  their acts of
terrorism are carried out in such  a way as to give the enemy the impression
that the particular  tragedy is the  result of some natural disaster  or  of
some  other circumstances  unconnected with Soviet military  intelligence or
with terrorism in general. All  the  other activity of  spetsnaz serves as a
sort of cover for such specially trained groups.  The enemy concentrates his
attention on the  main, reserve and false target areas,  not  suspecting the
existence of  secret  areas in  which  the organisation is  also  operating:
secret areas which could very easily be the most dangerous for the enemy.

--------

      Chapter 14. Future Prospects



     Spetsnaz  continues to grow. In the first place its ranks are swelling.
In the next few years spetsnaz companies on the  army level are  expected to
become battalions, and  there is much evidence to suggest that  this process
has already begun. Such a  reorganisation  would  mean  an  increase in  the
strength of spetsnaz by 10,000  men. But that is not the end of it.  Already
at the end of the  1970s the possibility  was being discussed of  increasing
the  number of  regiments  at the  strategic  level from  three to five. The
brigades at front  level could,  without any increase in  the  size  of  the
support units, raise the number of fighting battalions from three or four to
five. The possibilities  of increasing the strength of spetsnaz are entirely
realistic and evoke legitimate concern among Western experts.1

     1 See Appendices for notes on organisation.

        ___

     The principal  direction being  taken by efforts to improve the quality
of the spetsnaz formations is mechanisation. No  one disputes the advantages
of  mechanisation.  A  mechanised spetsnaz soldier is  able to withdraw much
more quickly from the dropping zone. He can  cover great distances much more
quickly and inspect much larger areas than can a soldier on foot. And he can
get quickly into contact with the enemy and inflict sudden blows on him, and
then get quickly away from where the enemy may strike him and pursue him.
     But the problem  of  mechanisation  is a  difficult  one.  The spetsnaz
soldier operates  in forests,  marshland,  mountains,  deserts  and  even in
enormous cities. Spetsnaz needs a vehicle capable of transporting a spetsnaz
soldier in all these  conditions,  and one that enables him to  be as silent
and practically invisible as he is now.
     There have  been  many scientific conferences dealing with the question
of providing  spetsnaz with a  means  of transport,  but they  have  not yet
produced any noticeable results. Soviet  experts realise that it will not be
possible to create a single machine  to  meet spetsnaz  needs, and that they
will have to develop  a whole family of vehicles with various features, each
of them intended for operations in particular conditions.
     One  of  the ways of increasing the  mobility of spetsnaz  behind enemy
lines  is  to provide part  of the unit  with very  lightweight  motorcycles
capable of operating on broken terrain. Various versions of the snow-tractor
are  being  developed  for  use in  northern  regions.  Spetsnaz  also  uses
cross-country vehicles. Some of them amount  to no more than a platform half
a metre high, a metre and a half wide  and two or  three metres long mounted
on six or eight  wheels. Such a vehicle can easily be dropped  by parachute,
and  it has considerable cross-country  ability  in very  difficult terrain,
including marshland and sand. It is capable of transporting a spetsnaz group
for  long  distances, and in case of necessity the group's base can be moved
around on such vehicles while the group operates on foot.
     The  introduction of such vehicles and motorcycles  into spetsnaz  does
more  than increase its  mobility;  it also increases its fire-power through
the use of heavier armament that can be transported on the vehicles, as well
as a larger supply of ammunition.
     The  vehicles,  motorcycles  and  snow-tractors are  developments being
decided today, and in the near future we shall see evidence that these ideas
are  being put into practice. In  the  more  distant future  the Soviet high
command wants to see the spetsnaz soldier airborne. The most likely solution
will be  for each soldier to have an  apparatus attached  to  his back which
will  enable him to make  jumps of several tens or  even hundreds of metres.
Such  an  apparatus could  act as  a  universal  means  of transport  in any
terrain, including  mountains.  Since the  beginning of  the 1950s intensive
research has  been going on in  the  Soviet Union on  this problem. It would
appear that there have so  far been no tangible achievements  in this field,
but there has been no reduction in the effort put into the research, despite
many failures.
     The same objective  --  to make  the spetsnaz  soldier airborne, or  at
least  capable  of big leaps  -- has also been pursued  by the Kamov  design
office,  which  has   for  several  decades,   along  with  designing  small
helicopters, been trying to create a midget  helicopter  sufficient for just
one  man. Army-General Margelov once said that `an apparatus must be created
that will eliminate the boundary between the earth and the sky.' Earth-bound
vehicles cannot fly, while aircraft and helicopters are defenceless  on  the
ground.  Margelov's  idea  was  that they  should try to create a very light
apparatus that  would enable  a  soldier  to flit like a dragon-fly from one
leaf to  another. What they needed was to turn  the Soviet soldier operating
behind enemy  lines into a sort of insect  capable of operating  both on the
ground and  in the air (though not very high up)  and also of switching from
one state to the other without effort.
     Every farmer knows  that  it is easier to kill a wild  buffalo that  is
ruining his crops than to kill a mass  of insects that have descended on his
plants  at  night.  The  Soviet  high  command dreams  of  a  day  when  the
neighbour's garden can be invaded not only by buffaloes but by mad elephants
too, and swarms of  voracious insects at the same time.  On a more practical
basis for  now, intensive research is being conducted in the Soviet Union to
develop new ways of dropping  men by  parachute. The  work  is testing out a
variety of new ideas, one  such being the  `container drop', in  other words
the  construction of a  container with  several  men  in it  which would  be
dropped  on  one  freight parachute. This method makes it possible to reduce
considerably the amount of time set aside for training  soldiers how to jump
by parachute: training time which can be better spent on more useful things.
The  container enables the people in  it to  start firing at targets as they
are landing and immediately  afterwards. The container method makes it  much
easier to keep  the  men  together  in  one spot  and solves  the problem of
assembling  a group after it has been dropped. But  there are a whole lot of
technical problems connected with the development of such containers for air
drops, and I am not competent to judge when they may be solved.
     Another  idea  being  studied   is  the  possibility   of  constructing
parachutes  that can glide; hybrid creations  combining the qualities of the
parachute and the hang-glider. This would make it possible for the transport
aircraft   to  fly  along  the  least  dangerous  routes  and  to  drop  the
parachutists over safe areas  far from the target they are making for. A man
using his own gliding parachute can descend slowly or remain at one level or
even climb higher. Since  they are  able to control  the direction  of their
flight  the  spetsnaz groups  can  approach their  targets  noiselessly from
various directions.
     The hang-glider, especially one  equipped with a very  light  motor, is
the  subject of enormous interest to the GRU. It makes it possible not  only
to  fly from one's  own  territory  to the enemy's  territory  without using
transport planes, but also to make short flights on the enemy's territory so
as to penetrate to targets,  to  evade  any threat  from  the  enemy and  to
perform other tasks.
     The hang-glider with a motor (the motodeltoplan) is the cheapest flying
machine and the one easiest to control.  The motor has  made it  possible to
take off from quite small, even patches of ground. It is no longer necessary
to clamber up  a  hillside in order  to  take  off. But the  most  important
feature  of the  motorised hand-glider is, of  course,  the  concealment  it
provides.  Experiments show that very powerful radar systems are often quite
unable to  detect  a hang-glider. Its flight is noiseless, because the motor
is used only for  taking off and  gaining  height. By flying with the  motor
shut off the man on the hang-glider is protected from heat-seeking  means of
detection and attack.
     The distance  that motorised hang-gliders can  fly is quite  sufficient
for spetsnaz.  It is  enough to allow a man  to take  off  quite a long  way
behind the frontier, cross it and land deep in the enemy's rear. Flight in a
dangerous  area can be  carried  out at very low  altitudes.  They  are  now
developing in  the Soviet  Union  a piece of  equipment  that  will make  it
possible for motorised hang-gliders to fly at  very low altitudes  following
the contours of the ground. Flights will have to take place at night  and in
conditions  of  bad  visibility,  and  a simple,  lightweight  but  reliable
navigation aid is being developed too.
     The motorised  hang-glider can be  used for  other  purposes apart from
transporting  spetsnaz  behind  the  enemy's  lines.  It  can  be  used  for
identifying and even  for  destroying especially  important  enemy  targets.
Experiments  show  that   the  deltoplan  can   carry   light  machine-guns,
grenade-launchers and rockets,  which  makes  it  an exceptionally dangerous
weapon  in  the  hands  of  spetsnaz.  The main  danger  presented by  these
`insects' is of course not to  be found in their individual qualities but in
their numbers. Any insect on its own can easily be swatted.  But a  swarm of
insects is a problem which demands serious thought: it is not easy to find a
way of dealing with them.
     The officers commanding the GRU know exactly the sort of deltoplan that
spetsnaz needs in  the foreseeable future. It has to be a machine that needs
no more than twenty-five metres to take off, has a rate of climb of not less
than a metre per second, and has a motor  with a power  of not  more than 30
kilowatts which must have good  heat isolation and make a noise  of not more
than 55 decibels. The machine must be capable of lifting a payload of 120 to
150 kilograms (reconnaissance equipment, armaments, ammunition). Work on its
development, like the work  carried out in  the  1930s on  the first  midget
submarines, is being carried on  simultaneously and independently by several
groups of designers.
     The GRU  realises that hang-gliders can be very  vulnerable  in daytime
and that they  are also very sensitive to  changes in the weather. There are
three  possible  ways   of  overcoming  these  difficulties:  improving  the
construction  of  the machines  themselves  and  improving  the professional
skills of the pilots; employing them suddenly and in large numbers on a wide
front, using many combinations of direction and height; and using them  only
in conjunction with many  other weapons and ways of fighting, and the use of
a great variety of different devices and tricks to neutralise the enemy.
     At  the same time as developing ways of  dropping people in the enemy's
rear, work is being  done  on methods for returning  spetsnaz units to their
own territory. This is  not as important  as the  business of dropping them;
nevertheless  there are situations when it is necessary to find some way  of
transporting  someone from  a  group,  or  a  whole  group,  back  to Soviet
territory. For many  years now this has sometimes been done with  low-flying
aircraft, but this  is a risky method which has yet  to be perfected. Better
methods are needed for evacuating men from territories where there is no sea
nearby, where the  helicopter  cannot be  used and  where an aircraft cannot
land.

        ___

     A Soviet general named  Meshcheryakov opened  up a vast area for  study
and research when he made the proposal that the armed  forces should `create
for spetsnaz  the kind of conditions in  which no one should  interfere with
its  work'.   There  are   many  problems  here  which   Soviet  science  is
concentrating on trying to solve. Who  interferes with the work of spetsnaz?
Primarily  the enemy's radar system. Radar installations interfere  with the
activity of the entire Soviet Army. In  order to open the way for the Soviet
Army into the territory of the enemy it is necessary first of all to `blind'
the enemy's radar system. That is always one of spetsnaz's principal  tasks.
But to  carry it out, the radars obstructing spetsnaz itself have somehow to
be put out of action. One solution to this problem is, prior to dropping the
main spetsnaz force, to send small groups behind the enemy's  lines who will
clear  the way for spetsnaz which will in turn clear  the way  for the whole
Soviet Army. Such a solution can be regarded as satisfactory only because no
other solution has so far been  found. But terrific effort is being put into
the work of  finding some other  solution.  The Soviet  high command needs a
technical  solution,  some method  that would make it possible,  even  for a
short period, simultaneously to `blind' the enemy's radar over a fairly wide
area, so as to  give the first wave of spetsnaz the opportunity to carry out
its mission.
     Anti-aircraft systems are the main  killers of spetsnaz. The soldier in
a  transport aircraft is  utterly defenceless. One quite small  missile,  or
even a shell,  can kill spetsnaz troops in whole groups. What can be done to
put  out  of action  the anti-aircraft defence systems at least on  a narrow
sector  before  the  arrival of  the  main force of spetsnaz on the  enemy's
territory?  Much thought  is  being  devoted  to this. The  solution may  be
technical. GRU's spies may help. But spetsnaz  can help itself by recruiting
an  agent long before the war begins and teaching him what  to do on receipt
of a sign from the centre.
     Once it has arrived in enemy territory spetsnaz is  vulnerable from the
moment of landing to the moment of meeting up with its own troops.
     In order to  increase its effectiveness  and create conditions in which
`no one should interfere with its  work' intensive work is being done on the
development  of jamming  stations  to  be  used in areas where  spetsnaz  is
operating,  to prevent the  enemy's electronic  devices (radio receivers and
transmitters, radars,  optical-electronic devices, computers  and  any other
instruments) from working normally so as to interfere with the co-ordination
of the various enemy forces operating against spetsnaz.
     Aircraft and helicopters cause  a  great deal of  trouble for spetsnaz.
Spetsnaz already has fairly impressive means of its own for defending itself
from air attacks, but work is now going on to provide spetsnaz groups with a
reliable anti-helicopter weapon, and to develop a weapon capable of covering
considerable areas or even of establishing zones free of all air activity by
the enemy.
     Finally, weapons systems are being developed of  which the main purpose
will be to isolate fairly large areas from penetration by the enemy's ground
forces. This involves the use of mines and automatic guns mounted and hidden
near  bridges, crossroads, tunnels and so forth, which operate automatically
and destroy the  enemy trying to transfer reinforcements into the area where
spetsnaz is operating and so to interfere with its work.

        ___

     The process of seeking out especially important targets in  the enemy's
territory will in future be carried out not so much by  spetsnaz men on foot
or even  `jumping'  as  by  automatic machines of a  fairly simple  (not  by
today's  standards  perhaps,  but  certainly  by  tomorrow's)  and  reliable
construction.
     Work has been  going  on  for quite  a long time  on the development of
light (up to 100 kilograms) cross-country vehicles with  remote control. The
vehicles  tested have mostly been  driven by  electricity.  They  have  been
steered by  remote  control  with  the aid of  television cameras  installed
inside them,  similar to  some  modern bomb-disposal equipment.  Apart  from
using  them to find the targets, experiments have been conducted  into using
them  to destroy  targets by  means of  a  grenade-launcher  mounted in  the
vehicle or  an  explosive charge that  detonates on contact with the target.
The rapid  advances  in electronics open up  enormous possibilities for  the
development of  light remote-controlled vehicles  capable of  covering large
areas quickly and noiselessly and of destroying targets in enemy territory.
     Pilotless aircraft have  long been used  for identifying  targets  over
large  areas,  and  the Soviet Union is  a leader in this  field.  Take, for
example, the Soviet  strategic  high-flying  pilotless  rocket-driven  plane
known  as the `Yastreb'. A tremendous amount of  work is  being done on  the
development  of relatively small pilotless  spy-planes. In  the  future such
planes will take off not only from Soviet territory but from enemy territory
as well. Soviet airborne troops and spetsnaz  have for long been very keenly
interested in the possibility of  developing a very light pilotless aircraft
that could  be put  together  and  launched on enemy  territory, survey vast
areas and transmit a picture  to Soviet troops. The  ideal aircraft would be
one carrying not only the equipment for  carrying out  reconnaissance but an
explosive  charge as well. Once it discovered  the target  and transmitted a
picture of it, it could attack it independently. There is nothing  fantastic
about  this  plan.  Modern  technology is quite capable of building such  an
aircraft.  The problem is simply to  make the aircraft  sufficiently  light,
cheap, reliable and accurate.
     Advances in  spetsnaz follow the usual  paths. While this research goes
on at the cutting edge of Soviet military power: improvements are being made
to the familiar weapons  and increases in the range, accuracy and fire-power
of grenade-launchers, rifles and other armament; improvements in the quality
of footwear, clothes, soldiers' equipment  and means of communication of all
kinds; and  reductions in  the weight  of weapons  like mines  along with an
increase in their destructive potential.

--------

      Chapter 15. Spetsnaz's First World War



     I  was standing on the top of an enormous skyscraper in New York when I
saw King Kong. The huge gorilla surveyed Manhattan triumphantly from a dizzy
height. Of  course  I  knew  it wasn't  real. But there  was  something both
frightening and symbolic in that huge black figure.
     I  learnt later that the gorilla was a rubber  one, that  it  had  been
decided to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary  of the showing  of the  first
film about King  Kong by  creating a  gigantic inflatable model of the beast
and placing  it high  above New York. The  rubber  monster was hauled up and
swayed about in the wind. From the technical point of view the operation had
been a  real triumph by the engineers and workmen who had taken part in  it.
But it was not an entire  success.  The monster turned out to  be  too huge,
with the result that holes appeared in its body through which the  air could
escape.  So the  gigantic  muscular frame quickly collapsed into a shapeless
bag.  They  had to pump more air into  it,  but  the harder they pumped  the
bigger the holes became and the quicker the air escaped from the monster. So
they had to keep on pumping....
     The Communist  leaders  have also  created a  rubber monster  and  have
hauled it up to a dizzy height.  The monster is known as the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, and  the Soviet  leaders  are faced with a  dilemma: to
expand  or to decline rapidly and become a flabby sack. It is interesting to
note that  the Soviet Union became  a superpower in  the course of  the most
destructive war in the history of civilisation, in spite of the fact that it
suffered the greatest loss  of life and the greatest destruction  on its own
territory. It has  become a military superpower and perhaps war is essential
for its existence.
     I do not  know how or when World  War Three  will start. I do  not know
exactly how  the Soviet high command  plans to make use of spetsnaz  in that
war: the first world war in which spetsnaz will be a major contributor. I do
not  wish  to predict  the future. In  this  chapter  I shall  describe  how
spetsnaz will be used at the  beginning of that war as I  imagine it.  It is
not  my  task to describe what  will happen. But I can  describe  what might
happen.

        ___

     The  last month of peace, as in other wars, has an almost palpable  air
of  crisis  about  it.  Incidents,  accidents, small  disasters  add  to the
tension.  Two trains collide  on  a  railway  bridge in  Cologne because the
signalling system is out of order. The bridge is seriously damaged and there
can be no traffic over it for the next two months.
     In the  port of  Rotterdam  a  Polish  supertanker bursts  into flames.
Because of an error by the  captain the tanker is far too close  to  the oil
storage tanks on the shore, and the burning  oil spreads around the harbour.
For  two weeks fire  brigades  summoned from practically  the  whole country
fight an heroic battle with the  flames. The port suffers tremendous losses.
The fire  appears to  have spread at  a quite  incredible  speed,  and  some
experts are  of the opinion that the Polish tanker was not the only cause of
the fire, that the fire broke out simultaneously in many places.
     In the Panama Canal the  Varna, a Bulgarian freighter loaded with heavy
containers, rams  the lock gates by mistake. Experts reckoned  that the ship
should have remained  afloat, but for some reason  she sinks there and then.
To reopen the canal  could well  take many months. The  Bulgarian government
sends  its  apologies and  declares  itself ready  to pay  for all the  work
involved.
     In  Washington, as the President's  helicopter is  taking  off, several
shots are fired at it from sniper's  rifles. The helicopter is only slightly
damaged and the crew succeed in bringing it down again safely. No one in the
craft is hurt.  Responsibility for  the attack  is claimed by  a  previously
unknown organisation calling itself `Revenge for Vietnam'.
     There is a terrorist explosion at Vienna airport.
     A group of  unidentified  men  attack  the  territory  of  the  British
military base in Cyprus with mortars.
     A serious accident takes place  on the most important oil  pipeline  in
Alaska. The  pumping stations  break down and  the flow  of  oil falls  to a
trickle.
     In West Germany there are several unsuccessful attempts on the lives of
American generals.
     In  the North  Sea the biggest  of the British  oil  rigs tips over and
sinks. The precise  reason for  this  is not established,  although  experts
believe that corrosion of main supports is the culprit.
     In  the United States an  epidemic of some unidentified disease  breaks
out and spreads rapidly. It seems to affect port areas particularly, such as
San Francisco, Boston, Charleston, Seattle, Norfolk and Philadelphia.
     There are explosions  practically every  day in Paris. The main targets
are  the   government  districts,   communication   centres   and   military
headquarters. At the same time terrible forest fires are raging in the South
of France.
     All these operations -- because of course none of  these events  is  an
accident -- and  others  like them are  known officially  in  the GRU as the
`preparatory period', and unofficially as the  `overture'. The overture is a
series of large and small operations the purpose of which is, before  actual
military  operations  begin,  to  weaken  the  enemy's  morale,  create   an
atmosphere  of  general  suspicion, fear  and  uncertainty,  and divert  the
attention  of  the enemy's  armies and police  forces to  a  huge number  of
different targets, each of which may be the object of the next attack.
     The overture is carried by agents of  the secret services of the Soviet
satellite  countries  and by mercenaries recruited  by  intermediaries.  The
principal method employed at this stage is `grey terror', that is, a kind of
terror which  is not conducted  in the  name of the Soviet Union. The Soviet
secret services do not at this  stage leave  their visiting  cards, or leave
other people's cards.  The  terror  is  carried out  in the name  of already
existing extremist groups not connected in any way with the Soviet Union, or
in the name of fictitious organisations.
     The GRU reckons  that  in this period its operations should be regarded
as  natural disasters, actions  by  forces  beyond human  control,  mistakes
committed by  people, or as  terrorist acts by  organisations  not connected
with the Soviet Union.
     The  terrorist acts carried out in the course of the `overture' require
very  few people, very few weapons  and little equipment. In  some cases all
that may  be  needed is  one  man who  has as  a weapon nothing more  than a
screwdriver, a box of matches or a glass ampoule. Some of the operations can
have catastrophic consequences.  For  example, an epidemic of  an infectious
disease at seven of the  most important naval  bases in the  West could have
the  effect of  halving  the combined naval  might  of  the  Soviet  Union's
enemies.
     The  `overture'  could  last  from  several weeks  to  several  months,
gradually gathering force and embracing fresh regions. At the  same time the
GUSM would become involved. Photographs compromising a NATO  chief appear on
the front  pages  of Western newspapers. A scandal explodes. It appears that
some of the NATO people  have been having meetings with  high-ranking Soviet
diplomats  and handing over  top secret  papers.  All efforts to refute  the
story only  fuel  the  fire.  The public  demands the immediate dismissal of
NATO's chiefs and  a  detailed enquiry. Fresh details about  the  affair are
published in the papers and the  scandal increases in scope. At that  moment
the KGB and GRU can take out and dust off a  tremendous quantity of material
and put it into circulation. The  main victims  now  are the people whom the
Soviets had tried to recruit but failed. Now carefully edited  and annotated
materials get into the hands of the press.  Soviet Intelligence has tried to
recruit thousands,  even tens of  thousands,  of  people  in its  time. They
include young lieutenants who have now become generals and third secretaries
who  have  now  become ambassadors.  All of  them rejected Soviet efforts to
recruit them, and now Soviet Intelligence avenges their refusal. The  number
of scandalous affairs increases. The nations discover to their surprise that
there are very few people to be trusted. The Soviet intelligence service has
nothing to lose if the press  gets hold of material showing that it tried to
recruit a French  general, without saying how the attempt ended. It has even
less to  lose on  the  eve of war. That  is why the newspapers  are  full of
demands  for  investigations and  reports of  resignations,  dismissals  and
suicides.  The best  way of  killing a general is to  kill him with his  own
hands.
     There is  a marked increase in the strength of the  peace  movement. In
many countries there are continual demands to make  the country  neutral and
not to support American foreign  policy, which has been discredited. At this
point the  `grey terror' gathers scope and strength and  in the last days of
peace reaches its peak.
     From  the first  moment of  the first  day  of  war the main  forces of
spetsnaz go into action. From then on the terror is conducted in the name of
the Soviet Union and of the Communist leadership: `red terror'.
     But  between  the   `grey'  and  the  `red'  terror  there  may  be  an
intermediate period -- the  `pink' terror, when active  military  operations
have not  yet begun  and  there is still  peace,  but when some of  the best
spetsnaz units  have already gone into action. The situation  is complicated
by the fact  that, on the  one hand,  Soviet  fighting units are  already in
battle,  but that, on the other hand, they are not yet operating in the name
of the Soviet  Union. This is an  exceptionally risky moment  for the Soviet
high command. But he who risks nothing  gains nothing. The Soviet commanders
want to gain a great deal, and so are  ready to risk a lot. A great deal has
of course been  done  to reduce the level  of risk. Only a relatively  small
number of spetsnaz troops  take part in the `pink' terror, but they  are the
best  people  in  spetsnaz  --   professional  athletes  of  Olympic  class.
Everything has been done to make sure that not one of  them should fall into
the  hands  of the enemy before the  outbreak of  war. A great deal has also
been done to ensure that, if one of  them should  fall  into  enemy hands at
that moment, it would be very difficult to establish his connection with any
country whatsoever.
     The  `pink' terror may continue for no more than a few hours. But those
are the most  important hours and minutes -- the very last hours and minutes
of peace. It is very important that those hours and minutes should be spoilt
for the enemy and used for the maximum advantage to the Soviet side. It must
be pointed out that the  `pink' terror may not  be carried out at all. It is
used only when there is  absolute certainty of the success of the operations
and equal  certainty that the enemy will not be able in the  remaining hours
and  minutes  to  assess  the  situation  correctly  and  strike  the  first
pre-emptive blow.

        ___

     For Soviet  Communists the month of August  has a special significance.
It was  in  August  that  the  First  World  War  began,  which  resulted in
revolutions  in  Russia, Germany and Hungary. In August  1939  Georgi Zhukov
succeeded in doing something that  no one before him had managed to do: with
a sudden blow he routed  a group of Japanese forces in the  Far East.  It is
possible that that  blow  had  very far-reaching consequences: Japan decided
against attacking the Soviet Union and chose to advance in other directions.
Also in August 1939 a pact  was signed in the Kremlin which opened the flood
gates for  the Second World  War, as a result of which  the  USSR  became  a
super-power.  In  August  1945  the Soviet Union  carried out a  treacherous
attack  on Japan and Manchuria. In the  course  of three weeks of  intensive
operations huge territories roughly equal in area and population  to Eastern
Europe  were `liberated'.  In August 1961 the Soviet Union built the  Berlin
Wall, in violation of international agreements it had signed. In August 1968
the Soviet Army `liberated' Czechoslovakia and, to  its  great surprise, did
not  meet with any opposition  from  the West. Suppose the Soviet Communists
again choose August for starting a war....

        ___

     On 12 August, at  0558 local time,  a van comes to a halt on  the  vast
empty parking lot in front  of a supermarket in  Washington. Three men  open
the doors of  the van, roll out the fuselage of a light aircraft and  attach
its wings. A minute later  its motor bursts into  life.  The plane takes off
and disappears into the sky. It has no pilot. It is controlled by radio with
the aid of very simple  instruments,  only  slightly  more  complicated than
those  used by model  aircraft enthusiasts.  The plane  climbs to  about 200
metres and  immediately  begins  to  descend in the  direction of the  White
House.  A minute  later a mighty explosion shakes  the capital of the United
States. The screaming  of sirens on police cars, fire engines and ambulances
fills the city.
     Three minutes later a second plane sweeps across the centre of the city
and  there  is a second  explosion in the place where the White  House  once
stood. The second  plane  has  taken  off from  a  section  of highway under
construction, and has a quite different control system.  Two cars with radio
beacons  in them  have  been left  earlier  in  the  middle of the city. The
beacons  have switched on  automatically a  few  seconds before the  plane's
take-off. The automatic pilot  is  guided by the two beacons and  starts  to
descend according to  a previously  worked-out trajectory.  The second plane
has been sent  off  by a second  group operating independently  of the first
one.
     It was  a  simple plan: if the  first plane did  not destroy the  White
House the second would. If the first  plane did destroy the White House then
a  few minutes later  all the  heads  of the Washington police would be near
where  the explosion had taken  place.  The second plane would kill  many of
them.
     At  0606  all  radio  and television  channels  interrupt  their normal
programmes and report the destruction of  the White  House and  the possible
death of the President of the United States.
     At 0613 the programme known as Good Morning America is  interrupted and
the Vice-President of the  USA appears. He announces a  staggering  piece of
news: there has been an attempt to seize power in the country on the part of
the leaders of the armed forces. The President of the United States has been
killed. The Vice-President appeals to everyone in the armed forces to remain
where they are and not to carry out any orders from  senior officers for the
next  twenty-four hours,  because  the orders  would be  issued  by traitors
shortly to be removed from their posts and arrested.
     Soon afterwards  many  television  channels  across the  country  cease
transmitting....

        ___

     The Soviet military leaders know that  if  it doesn't prove possible to
destroy  the  President  of the  United  States in  peacetime,  it  will  be
practically impossible to do so at a  time of crisis.  The President will be
in  an  underground,  or   airborne,   command  post,   somewhere  extremely
inaccessible and extremely well guarded.
     Consequently  the  leaders, while not  abandoning  attempts to kill the
President (for which  purpose several groups of assassins with every kind of
weapon, including anti-aircraft missiles, have been dropped in the country),
decide to carry out an operation aimed at causing panic and confusion. If it
proves impossible to kill the President  then  they will  have to reduce his
capacity to  rule  the  country  and its armed  forces at the  most critical
moment.
     To carry  out  this  task  the  Soviets  have  secretly  transferred to
Washington  a spetsnaz  company  from the  first  spetsnaz  regiment  at the
strategic level. A large part of the company is made up of women. The entire
complement of the company is professional  athletes of  Olympic standard. It
has taken  several months to transfer the whole company  to  Washington. The
athletes have arrived in  the guise of security men, drivers and technicians
working in the  Soviet embassy  and other Soviet  establishments, and  their
weapons  and  equipment have  been  brought  in  in  containers  covered  by
diplomatic privilege. The  company has been split into eight groups to carry
out its mission. Each group has its own organisation, structure, weapons and
equipment. To carry out  their tasks some  of the groups will  have to  make
contact  with  secret agents recruited  a long  time previously by  the  GRU
rezidentura.
     On 11 August the  GRU rezident in Washington,  a major-general known by
the code-name of `Mudry' (officially a civilian and a high-ranking diplomat)
receives an encyphered telegram consisting of  one single  word -- `Yes'. On
the rezident's orders the spetsnaz company leave their places of  work. Some
of them simply  go back home. Some  are transported secretly in the boots of
their cars by GRU officers and dropped in the woods round the city, in empty
underground garages and other secluded places.
     The group commanders gather  their groups together in previously agreed
places and set about carrying out their tasks.
     Group  No. 1  consists of  three men and the group is  backed up by one
secret agent. The agent works as a mechanic at an airport. In his spare time
he builds flying models of aircraft of various sizes. This  particular model
was designed  by  the best  Soviet  aircraft designers and  put together  in
America from spares bought in the  open market.  The agent himself does  not
play  any part  in the  operation.  A van  containing  a  light radio-guided
aircraft  and its  separate wings has  been standing in his garage for  some
months.  What the aircraft is  for and to whom it belongs the agent does not
know. He only knows that  someone has  the keys to the garage  and that that
person can  at any moment come  and take the van along with the aircraft. In
the  middle of the night  the  spetsnaz  group  drives  the van out into the
forest where they take the explosive charges from a secret  hiding place and
prepare the plane for flight. At dawn the  van  is  standing in the deserted
parking lot.
     Group No. 2 is doing roughly the same at that time.  But this group has
three  agents working for it,  two of whom have left  their  cars with radio
beacons parked in precisely defined spots in the centre of the city.
     Group No. 3 consists of fifteen spetsnaz men and five experts from  the
REB osnaz. They are all wearing police uniforms. At  night the group kidnaps
the director  of a television company  and his family. Leaving the family at
home as  hostages  guarded by three spetsnaz men, the rest of the group make
their  way to the  studios,  capturing two more  highly placed officials  on
their way, also  as hostages, but without giving  cause for noise  or  panic
among  the staff.  Then, with guns threatening them and supervised by Soviet
electronics experts, the director and his assistants insert, instead of  the
usual  advertising programme, a video  cassette which  the  commander of the
group has given him.  The video cassette has been  made up in advance in the
Soviet Union. The role of the Vice-President is played by an actor.
     The Soviet high command knows that it is  very  difficult  to cut  into
American military channels. If it  is at all possible,  then at best it will
be possible to do no more than overhear  conversations or interrupt them. It
is practically  impossible to use them for  transmitting false orders at the
strategic level.  That  is why it  is  decided  to make use of the  civilian
television network: it is difficult to get into a television studio, but  it
is possible and there are many to  choose from. Operations are  carried  out
simultaneously  in several different cities against various TV companies. If
the  operation succeeds  in only one city it will not matter --  millions of
people will be disoriented at the most critical moment.
     The operational plan has provided that, just after the `Vice-President'
has spoken several retransmitters will be destroyed by other spetsnaz groups
and one  of  the American  communication satellites will be  shot  down  `by
mistake' by  a Soviet satellite. This  is intended to deprive  the President
and  the  real  Vice-President  of  the  opportunity  to  refute  the  false
declaration.
     But events do not go entirely according to plan. The President succeeds
in addressing the people  and issuing a  denial  of  the  report.  After the
television network  throughout America has suffered such major  damage,  the
radio  immediately  becomes the  principal  means  of  communication.  Radio
commentators  produce different  commentaries about  what  is happening. The
majority of them report that  it is difficult to say which report is genuine
and which was false, but that the only fact about which there is no doubt is
that the White House has been destroyed.
     At the moment  when all  these  events are  taking  place in Washington
another  spetsnaz  company  from the same regiment  is ordered  by  the  GRU
rezident in  New  York  to carry out the same operation but on a much larger
scale.  They do  not  make use  of  radio-guided  aircraft,  but  seize  two
television studios and  one radio studio which they use for transmitting the
same false  report.  Five other spetsnaz groups emerge from official  Soviet
offices and make open,  armed attacks on underground  cables  and some radio
and TV transmitting  and receiving aerials. They  manage  to damage them and
also some transformer stations, as a result of which millions of TV  screens
go blank.
     A few hours later spetsnaz detachment I-M-7  of 120  men  lands in  New
York  harbour from  a  freighter sailing  under  a Liberian flag.  Using its
fire-power the detachment makes its  way  to the nearest subway station and,
splitting into  small groups and  seizing  a train with hostages, sets about
destroying the underground communications of the city.
     In the area around the  berths  of America's huge aircraft-carriers and
nuclear submarines  in Norfolk, several mini-subs are discovered, as well as
underwater saboteurs with aqualungs.
     In Alaska  eighteen  different places  are recorded where  small groups
have tried to land from Soviet naval vessels,  submarines and aircraft. Some
of the groups have been destroyed as they landed, others have managed to get
back to their ships or, after landing successfully, hidden in the forests.
     Spetsnaz detachment  I-S-7  consisting of eighty-two  men lands on  the
coast of Mexico, immediately  commandeers private cars, and the  next night,
using their fire-power and new mobility, cross the United States border.
     Small  spetsnaz groups  land and use  routes  and methods  employed  by
illegal immigrants, while others make  use of paths and methods used by drug
dealers.
     Islands and the military installations on them  are more vulnerable  to
sabotage operations, and  at the same moment spetsnaz groups are  landing on
Okinawa and Guam, on Diego  Garcia, in Greenland and dozens of other islands
on which the West has bases.

        ___

     Spetsnaz  group  2-S-13 has  spent three weeks aboard  a  small  Soviet
fishing vessel  fishing  close  to the shores of  Ireland.  On receiving the
signal `393939'  the ship's captain gives the  order to cut the nets, switch
off the  radio, radar and navigation lights and set course  at top speed for
the shores of Great Britain.
     In darkness two  light speed-boats  are lowered  from  the  side of the
ship. They are big enough to take the whole group.  In the first boat is the
group commander,  a lieutenant with the  code-name of `Shakespeare', a radio
operator, a machine-gunner and two snipers. In the second boat is the deputy
group commander, a junior lieutenant with the code-name `Poet', two soldiers
with flame-throwers and two snipers. Each man has a supply of food for three
days, which is supposed to be used only in the event of being pursued for  a
long period.  For  general  purposes  the  group  has  to  obtain  its  food
independently,  as best it can.  The  group  also  includes  two huge German
shepherd dogs.
     After landing the group the little fishing vessel, still without lights
or radio, puts out into the open sea. The ship's  captain  is hoping to hide
away in a  neutral port in Ireland.  If the vessel is  stopped  at sea  by a
British naval patrol the  captain  and  his crew have nothing  to  fear: the
dangerous passengers  have left  the fishing  boat and all  traces  of their
presence on it have already been removed.
     `Shakespeare's' group lands on a  tiny beach close to Little Haven. The
landing place has  been chosen long ago,  and very well chosen: the beach is
shut  in on  three sides by huge  cliffs,  so that even  in  daytime  it  is
impossible to see from a distance what is going on on the beach itself.
     At the same time as `Shakespeare' four other spetsnaz groups are  going
ashore  in  different  places  two  or  three  kilometres  apart.  Operating
independently of each other, these four groups arrive by different routes at
the  little village  of  Brawdy and at 3.30  in  the  morning  they  make  a
simultaneous attack from different directions on  a large building belonging
to  the  United  States Navy.  According  to  reports  received  by the GRU,
hundreds, and possibly thousands, of acoustic listening  posts have been set
up in the region  of the Atlantic  Ocean. The underwater cables  from  these
posts  come  together at  Brawdy where  hundreds of American experts analyse
with the aid of a computer a huge  amount of information  about the movement
of submarines  and  surface ships  all over the North Atlantic. According to
the GRU's information  similar establishments have been set up in Antigua in
the  Azores, in Hofn and  Keflavik in Iceland,  in Hawaii  and  on Guam. The
GRU's commanding officers  are aware that their information about Brawdy may
not be  accurate. But the decision has been taken to attack  and destroy the
Brawdy monitoring station  and all  the others  as well. The  four attacking
groups  have  been given  the  task of killing as many  as  possible of  the
technical staff of  the station and of destroying as much as possible of the
electronic  apparatus, and everything that will burn  must  be  burnt. Mines
must be laid at  the approaches to  the building. All four  groups can  then
depart in different directions.
     The `Shakespeare' group takes no part in  the raid. Its task, beginning
with  the following  night, is to lay  the  mines  at the approaches  to the
building. Apart from  that, with sniper fire and open attacks, the group has
to make  it difficult for anyone to attempt to save  or restore the station.
The group commander knows that the four neighbouring groups which are taking
part  in the attack  are  nearby and  are doing  the  same.  But  the  group
commander  does  not  know  everything.  He  does  not  know  that  spetsnaz
detachment 2-S-2, under the command  of a major known as `Uncle Kostya', has
landed in the  area of St David's. Detachment  2-S-2  consists of  fifty-six
men, fifteen lightweight motorcycles and six small  cars with a considerable
supply of  ammunition.  The detachment's task  is  to  move  rapidly,  using
secondary and forest roads and in some cases even the main  roads, and reach
the Forest  of  Dean to  organise a  base there.  The Forest  of  Dean is  a
wonderful  place for spetsnaz operations. It is  a  hilly area covered  with
dense forest. At one  time it  was an important industrial region. There are
still the remains  of the  abandoned  coal  mines  and quarries  and railway
tunnels, although it is a long time since  there was any railway there. Once
firmly established in  that  forest  `Uncle Kostya'  can  strike out  in any
direction: nearby  there is a  nuclear power  station, the Severn bridge,  a
railway  tunnel  beneath the river  Severn,  the  port of Bristol, the  GCHQ
government  communications centre at  Cheltenham,  very  important  military
factories also  at Bristol and a  huge munitions  dump at  Welford.  The GRU
believes that it is somewhere  in  this area that the Royal Family would  be
sent in the event of war, and that would be a very important target.
     The four spetsnaz groups  which have taken part  at the  outset in  the
operation against Brawdy  depart immediately after the attack and make their
different ways to the Forest  of  Dean  where  they  can join up with  Uncle
Kostya's detachment. Shakespeare  knows nothing about this. The  large-scale
raid  on  Brawdy and  Shakespeare's continued activity in the following days
and nights ought to give  the enemy  the impression that this is one  of the
main areas of operation for spetsnaz.
     Meanwhile spetsnaz  group  2-C-41,  of twelve  men,  has been landed at
night  near  the port of Felixstowe from the catamaran Double Star. The boat
is sailing under the  Spanish flag. The  group has left the catamaran in the
open sea  and swum ashore in aqualungs. There it  has been met by a spetsnaz
agent recruited some years previously. He has at the  GRU's expense bought a
small motorcycle shop,  and  his shop  has  always  had  available at  least
fifteen Japanese motorcycles all ready for the road, along with several sets
of leather jackets,  trousers and crash helmets. The  group (containing some
of the  best  motorcyclists in the Soviet Union)  changes  its clothes,  its
weapons  are  wrapped in tarpaulin, the spetsnaz agent and  his  family  are
killed  and  their bodies hidden  in  the  cellar  of  their  house, and the
motorcycle gang  then  rushes off  at a  great speed  along the  A45  in the
direction of Mildenhall.  Its  task  is  to  set  up  automatic  Strela-Blok
anti-aircraft missiles in the area of the base and knock out one of the most
important American air bases in Europe, used regularly by F-111s. Afterwards
the  group  is  to make  for  the nearest forest  and  link up with spetsnaz
detachment 2-C-5.
     The group  commander does not know that at  the same  time and not  far
away from  him ten other  spetsnaz  groups, each working independently,  are
carrying out  similar  operations  against  the  American military  bases at
Woodbridge, Bentwaters and Lakenheath.

        ___

     The motor yacht Maria was built in Italy. In the course of a decade she
has changed owners several times and visited the  oceans of the world  until
she was sold to some wealthy person,  after which she has not been  seen for
several years in any port in the world. But when the international situation
takes a turn for the worse the  Maria appears in the North Sea sailing under
a  Swedish flag. After some modernisation  the appearance  of the yacht  has
changed somewhat. On receiving the signal `393939' the Maria travels at full
speed  towards  the coast  of  Great Britain.  When  it  is  inside  British
territorial waters  and  within range of Fylingdales Moor  the yacht's  crew
removes hatch  covers  to  reveal  two  BM-23  Katusha-like  multi-barrelled
missile-launchers.  The sailors  quickly  aim  the  weapon  at the  gigantic
spheres and  fire. Seventy-two heavy shells explode around the installation,
causing irreparable harm  to the early  warning system. The  sailors  on the
yacht put on their aqualungs  and jump  overboard. For  two hours  the yacht
drifts close to  the shore  without a crew. When the police clamber  aboard,
she explodes and sinks.

        ___

     For operations against NATO forces in Central  Europe  the  Soviet high
command  has  concentrated  an   immensely  powerful  collection  of  forces
consisting  of the  1st  and 2nd Western  Fronts  in East Germany,  the  3rd
Western Front in Poland,  the Central Front in  Czechoslovakia and the Group
of  Tank  Armies  in  Belorussia.  This  makes  fifteen  armies  altogether,
including the six tank armies.  On  the  right  flank of this collection  of
forces there  is the combined  Baltic Fleet.  And deep in  Soviet  territory
another  five  fronts are  being built up  (fifteen  armies altogether)  for
supporting attack.
     On 12 August  at 2300 hours spetsnaz battalions  drawn  from  the seven
armies  of  the  first echelon cross  the  frontier of  Western  Germany  on
motorised hang-gliders, ordinary  gliders and gliding parachutes.  Operating
in small groups,  each battalion strikes at the enemy's radar installations,
concentrating its  efforts on a relatively  narrow sector so as to  create a
sort of  corridor  for  its planes  to fly  through.  Apart from these seven
corridors, another one of strategic importance  is created. It was  for this
purpose that back in July the 13th spetsnaz brigade arrived in East  Germany
from  the Moscow  military  district  on the pretext that it was a  military
construction unit and based itself in the Thuringer Wald. The brigade is now
split into sixty  groups  scattered  about the  forests of the  Spessart and
Odenwald hills, and faced  with  the  task of destroying  the  anti-aircraft
installations, especially  the radar systems. In the  first  wave there  are
altogether 130 spetsnaz groups dropped with a total of some 3300 troops.
     Two hours after the men have been dropped, the Soviet air force carries
out  a mass  night  raid  on  the  enemy's anti-aircraft installations.  The
combined  blow struck by the  air  force and spetsnaz makes it  possible  to
clear  one  large and several smaller  corridors  through the  anti-aircraft
defence  system. These corridors are used immediately  for another  mass air
attack and a second drop of spetsnaz units.
     Simultaneously,  advance detachments  of  the seven  armies  cross  the
frontier and advance westwards.
     At  0330  hours  on 13 August  the  second wave  of spetsnaz  forces is
dropped from  Aeroflot  aircraft  operating at very low  heights  with heavy
fighter cover.
     The  Central Front drops  its  spetsnaz brigade  in the  heavily wooded
mountains near  Freiburg.  The  brigade's job  is to destroy  the  important
American,  West German  and French  headquarters,  lines  of  communication,
aircraft on the ground  and anti-aircraft defences. This  brigade is, so  to
speak, opening the gates  into France,  into  which  will soon burst several
fronts and a further wave of spetsnaz.
     The 1st and 2nd Western Fronts drop their spetsnaz brigades  in Germany
to the west of the  Rhine.  This part  of  West Germany is the furthest away
from  the  dangerous   eastern  neighbour  and  consequently  all  the  most
vulnerable  targets  are concentrated  there: headquarters,  command  posts,
aerodromes, nuclear weapon stores, colossal  reserves of military equipment,
ammunition and fuel.
     The spetsnaz brigade of the 1st  Western Front is dropped in the Aachen
area. Here there are several large forests where bases can be organised  and
a number of very tempting  targets: bridges across the Rhine which  would be
used for bringing up reserves and supplying the NATO  forces fighting to the
east of the Rhine, the important  air  bases of Bruggen and Wildenrath,  the
residence of the German government and West Germany's civil service in Bonn,
important headquarters near München-Gladbach, and the Geilenkirchen air base
where the E-3A early-warning aircraft are based. It is in this area that the
Soviet high  command plans to  bring  into the battle  the 20th Guards Army,
which is to strike southwards down  the west bank of the Rhine. The spetsnaz
brigade is  busy clearing the way for the columns of tanks which are soon to
appear here.
     The spetsnaz brigade of the  2nd Western Front  has been dropped in the
Kaiserslautern area with the task of neutralising the important air base and
the air force  command posts near Ramstein and Zweibrücken and of destroying
the  nuclear  weapons stores at Pirmasens. The  place where the brigade  has
been dropped is where, according to the plan of the Soviet high command, the
two arms of  the gigantic  pincer  movement are  to close together: the 20th
Guards  Army advancing from  the north and the 8th Guards Tank Army striking
from  Czechoslovakia in the direction  of Karlsruhe. After  this  the second
strategic echelon will be brought into action  to inflict a  crushing defeat
on France.
     At the  same time the Soviet high command inderstands  that to  win the
war it has  to prevent the large-scale transfer of American troops, arms and
equipment to Western Europe.  To solve the problem  the huge Soviet Northern
Fleet  will have to be brought  out into  the Atlantic and  be kept supplied
there.  The operations of the  fleet will  have  to be  backed up by the Air
Force. But for the fleet to get  out  into the Atlantic it will have to pass
through a long corridor between Norway and Greenland  and Iceland. There the
Soviet  fleet  will be  exposed to  constant  observation and attack by  air
forces, small ships and submarines operating out of the fjords and by a huge
collection of radio-electronic instruments and installations.
     Norway,  especially its southern  part, is  an exceptionally  important
area for the Soviet military leaders. They need to seize southern Norway and
establish air  and naval  bases there in order  to  fight a battle  for  the
Atlantic and therefore  for Central  Europe.  The  Soviet  high  command has
allotted  at least one  entire  front  consisting of an  airborne  division,
considerable  naval  forces  and  a  brigade  of  spetsnaz.  But  airlifting
ammunition,  fuel, foodstuffs and  reinforcements  to the military, air  and
naval bases in Norway presents  great problems of scale. So there have to be
good and  safe roads to the  bases in southern  Norway. Those  roads  lie in
Sweden.
     In the past Sweden was lucky: she always remained on the sidelines in a
conflict. But  at the  end  of  the twentieth  century  the  balance of  the
battlefield  is  changing. Sweden  has  become  one  of the  most  important
strategic points in  the world. If war  breaks out the path of the aggressor
will lie across Sweden. The occupation of Sweden is made  easier by the fact
that  there  are no nuclear weapons  on  its territory,  so that the  Soviet
leaders risk very little. They know,  however, that the Swedish soldier is a
very  serious  opponent -- thoughtful,  disciplined, physically  strong  and
tough, well armed, well acquainted with the territory he will  have to fight
over, and well trained for action in such terrain. The experience of the war
against Finland teaches that  in  Scandinavia frontal attacks with  tanks do
not produce brilliant  results. It requires the use  of  special tactics and
special troops: spetsnaz.
     And so it goes on,  all over  the  world. In Sweden the capital city in
reduced  to a state of  panic by  the  murder  of  several senior government
figures and  arson  and  bombing  attacks  on  key  buildings  and  ordinary
civilians.  In Japan,  American nuclear  bases  are destroyed  and  chemical
weapons used on the seat of government. In Pakistan, a breakaway movement in
Baluchistan province, instantly  recognised by  the Soviet Communist  Party,
asks for and receives direct military intervention from the  USSR to protect
its  fragile independence: Soviet-controlled  territory extends all the  way
from Siberia through Afghanistan to the Indian Ocean.
     It may not  even need a third world war for the Soviet  Union to occupy
Baluchistan. The  Red  Army may be withdrawing from Afghanistan, but knowing
what we  know about Soviet strategy  and the uses to which  spetsnaz can  be
put, such  a withdrawal can be seen  as a  useful  public relations exercise
without  hindering the work of spetsnaz in any way. With a spetsnaz presence
in Baluchistan, the Politburo could be reaching  very close to the main  oil
artery of the world, to  the Arab countries, to Eastern and Southern Africa,
to  Australia  and  South-east  Asia:  territories  and   oceans  that   are
practically undefended.

--------

      APPENDICES



     Appendix A-D Skipped (diagrams)

--------

      Appendix E



     The part the Soviet athletes play
     Below  are a number of  examples of the very close relationship between
the sporting and military achievements of Soviet athletes.
     Vladimir Myagkov.  In the Soviet ski championships in  1939 Myagkov put
up  an  exceptionally  good time over the 20-kilometre  distance, and became
Soviet champion at that distance. During the war he was called into the Army
and put in charge of a small unit of athletes which came  directly under the
Intelligence directorate  of  the front.  He was  later  killed  in fighting
behind enemy lines. He was the first of the top Soviet athletes to be made a
Hero of the Soviet Union, in his case posthumously. The tasks that Myagkov's
sports unit was carrying out, the circumstances of his death and the act for
which he was made a Hero remain a Soviet state secret to this day.
     Porfiri Polosukhin. A Red  Army officer  before the war,  he held world
records  at  parachute  jumping. He  had been an instructor training special
troops for operations on enemy territory.  During  the war  he  continued to
train  parachutists for  spetsnaz units of `guard  minelayers'. He was often
behind  the  enemy's  lines,  and  he  developed a  method  of  camouflaging
airfields and  of  communicating with  Soviet aircraft from  secret partisan
airfields.  This original system operated until the end of  the war and  was
never detected  by  the enemy, as a  result of which connection by air  with
partisan units, especially with spetsnaz and osnaz units,  was exceptionally
reliable.  After  the war many  a soldier  from special  troops  trained  by
Polosukhin became world and European parachute champions.
     Dmitri Kositsyn. Before the war he headed the skating department in one
of  the  State  Institutes of Physical  Culture.  It was  supposed  to  be a
civilian  institute, but the teachers and  many of the students had military
rank. Kositsyn was a captain and had some notable achievements to his credit
in  sport, having established a number of Soviet records. During the  war he
commanded  a  special  unit known  as  `Black  Death'.  From that `civilian'
institute,  in the first week of war alone, thirteen such units were formed.
They engaged in  active  terrorist work in  support of the Red Army, and the
speed with which the units were formed suggests that long before the war all
the members of the  units had been carefully screened and trained. Otherwise
they  would not have been sent behind the lines. Kositsyn's unit  acquired a
name as the most daring and ruthless  of all the formations on the Leningrad
front.
     Makhmud Umarov. During the  Second World War Umarov was a soldier in an
independent  spetsnaz mine-laying battalion. He  was  several  times dropped
with a group of  men  behind enemy lines. He had  two professions:  he was a
crack  shot,  and  a  doctor.  After  the war  he  was  an  officer  in  the
Intelligence directorate of the Leningrad military district. He continued to
have  two professions, and as a doctor-psychiatrist he  received an honorary
doctorate for theoretical work. As a crack shot he became European and world
champion; in fact, he was five times European champion and three times world
champion. He won two Olympic silver medals for pistol shooting, in Melbourne
and in Rome.  After the resurrection of spetsnaz he served  as an officer in
that organisation, where  both  his professions were valued.  Thanks to  his
sporting  activities Lieutenant-Colonel Umarov visited many countries of the
world  and  had  extensive  connections.  In  1961 Makhmud  Umarov  suddenly
disappeared  from the  medical and sporting  scenes. There is some reason to
believe that he died in very strange circumstances.
     Yuri Borisovich  Chesnokov. A man  of  unusual  physical  strength  and
endurance, he took  part  in  many  kinds  of  sport.  He  was  particularly
successful  at  volleyball:  twice  world  champion  and  Olympic  champion.
Chesnokov's physical qualities were noticed  very early and  as soon  as  he
finished  school he  was  taken into  the  Academy of Military  Engineering,
although he was not an officer. From  that  time he was  closely involved in
the theory and practice of using  explosives.  Apart  from an  Olympic  gold
medal  he  has another gold medal  for his  work on the technique of causing
explosions. Chesnokov is now a spetsnaz colonel.
     Valentin Yakovlevich  Kudrevatykh.  He joined  the para-military DOSAAF
organisation  when  he  was still  at school. He took up  parachute jumping,
gliding  and rifle shooting at the same time.  In May 1956 he made his first
parachute jump. Two  years  later, at the age of  eighteen, he had reached a
high level at parachute jumping and shooting. In 1959 he was called into the
army, serving in the airborne forces. In 1961  he  set five world records in
one  week in parachute sport, for which he was promoted sergeant and sent to
the airborne officers' school in Ryazan. After that he was sent  to spetsnaz
and put in command of some  special women's  units. He had under his command
the most outstanding women athletes, including Antonina Kensitskaya, to whom
he is now married. She  has established thirteen world records, her  husband
fifteen. He  made parachute  jumps (often with a women's group) in the  most
incredible conditions, landing in the mountains, in forests, on the roofs of
houses and so  forth. Kudrevatykh  took part in practically all the tests of
new parachute equipment and weapons.  Along  with a  group  of  professional
women parachutists  he  took  part in  the  experimental  group drop from  a
critically low  height on  1  March 1968. Then,  as  he  was completing  his
5,555th jump, he got into a  critical  situation. Black humour  among Soviet
airborne  troops says that, if  neither  the main nor the reserve  parachute
opens,  the parachutist  still has  a whole  twenty seconds to learn to fly.
Kudrevatykh did  not learn to fly in those last seconds, but he managed with
his  body and the  unopened parachutes  to slow his fall. He spent more than
two years in hospital and went through more than ten operations. When he was
discharged he made his 5,556th  jump. Many Soviet military papers  published
pictures  of  that  jump.  As usual  Kudrevatykh jumped  in  the  company of
professional  women  parachutists.  But  there are no women  in  the  Soviet
airborne divisions. Only in spetsnaz.
     After making that jump Kudrevatykh was promoted full colonel.

--------

      Appendix F



     The Spetsnaz Intelligence Point (RP-SN)
     Imagine  that  you have  graduated from  the 3rd  faculty  (operational
intelligence) of the  Military-Diplomatic Academy  of  the General Staff. If
you have passed out  successfully you will be  sent  to one  of  the  twenty
Intelligence directorates (RUs), which are to be found  in  the headquarters
of military districts, groups of forces and fleets.
     On the first  day I spent at the Military-Diplomatic Academy I realised
that  diplomacy  is  espionage  and  that  military  diplomacy  is  military
espionage.   Successful    completion   of   the   3rd    faculty   of   the
Military-Diplomatic  Academy  means  serving  in  one  of  the  Intelligence
directorates,  or   in  subordinate  units   directly  connected   with  the
recruitment of foreign agents and managing them.
     Imagine you  have  been posted to  the  Intelligence Directorate of the
Kiev military district. Kiev is without doubt the most beautiful city in the
Soviet Union, and I have heard it said more than once by Western journalists
who have visited Kiev that it is the most beautiful city in the world.
     So you are now in the enormous building housing the headquarters of the
Kiev military  district. At different times  all  the  outstanding  military
leaders  of  the Soviet  Union  have worked  in  this  magnificent building:
Zhukov, Bagramyan, Vatutin,  Koshevoi, Chuikov, Kulikov, Yakubovsky and many
others. The office of the  officer commanding the district is on  the second
floor. To the right of his  office are the massive doors  to the Operational
Directorate. To the left are the no less massive  doors to the  Intelligence
Directorate.  It is  a  symbolic  placing:  the  first  directorate  (battle
planning)  is  the  commanding   officer's  right  hand,  while  the  second
directorate  (razvedka) is his left. There  are  many other directorates and
departments in the headquarters, but they are all on other floors.
     Your  first  visit  to  the  Intelligence  Directorate  at the district
headquarters takes place, of  course, in the company of one of the officers.
Otherwise you would simply not be admitted.
     Before entering the headquarters you must call at the permit office and
produce your authority. You are given a number to phone and an officer comes
to escort you. The permit office examines your documents very  carefully and
issues you with a temporary pass. The officer then  leads you  along endless
corridors and up numerous stairs. You must be ready at every turn to produce
your permit and officer's  identity  card. Your documents  are  checked many
times before you reach the district's head of razvedka.
     Now  you  are   in   the  general's  huge  office.  Facing   you  is  a
major-general,  the head  of razvedka  for  the Kiev  military district. You
introduce yourself to him: `Comrade general, Captain so-and-so reporting for
further duty.'
     The  general  asks you  a few questions, and as he talks with you about
trivialities  he  decides your  fate. There are  a number  of possibilities.
Perhaps he doesn't take to you and  so  decides not to take you on. You will
be posted  to the district Personnel  Directorate and will  never again have
anything to do with Intelligence work. Or he may like you but not very much.
In that  case  he  will send  you for reconnaissance work on lower floors to
serve in a division or regiment. You will  be working in  razvedka,  but not
with the agent network.
     If  you  really  please  him  several  paths  will be  open to you. The
razvedka of a military district is a gigantic organisation with a great deal
of  work to do. Firstly, he can post you to the headquarters of one of three
armies to work  in the headquarters  Intelligence department, where you will
be sent on to an intelligence post (RP) to recruit secret agent-informers to
work for that army.
     Secondly, he  can leave you in the Intelligence directorate for work in
the second (agent network) or the third (spetsnaz) department.  Thirdly,  he
can post you  to one  of  the places where the  recruitment of foreigners to
work for the Kiev military district is  actually taking place. There are two
such places: the  Intelligence  centre  (RZs) and  the spetsnaz Intelligence
point (RP spetsnaz).
     The general may ask you for your own opinion. Your reply must be short:
for  example  --  I  don't mind where  I work,  so long  as  it  is  not  at
headquarters, preferably  at recruitment. The  general expects that sort  of
reply from you. Intelligence  has no  need of an officer who is not bursting
to  do recruiting work. If someone has got into Intelligence work but is not
burning with desire to recruit foreigners, it means he has made a mistake in
his choice of profession. It  also means that the people who recommended him
for   Intelligence   work   and   spent    years   training   him   at   the
Military-Diplomatic Academy were also mistaken.
     The general asks his final question: what kind of agents do you want to
recruit  -- for  providing information or for  collaborating  with spetsnaz?
Every  intelligence officer at  the front and  fleet level must know how  to
recruit agents of both kinds. It is, you say, all the same to you.
     `All right,' the general  says, `I am appointing you an  officer in the
spetsnaz Intelligence point of the  3rd department of the Second Directorate
of the headquarters of the  Kiev military district. The order will be issued
in writing tomorrow. I wish you well.'
     You thank the  general for the trust  placed  in you,  salute  smartly,
click your heels, and leave the office. The escorting officer awaits you  at
the exit.  From  here, without  any permits,  you  come  out  into  a little
courtyard, where there is always a little prison van waiting. The door slams
behind you and you  are in a mousetrap. Facing you is a little opaque window
with a strong grille over it. No use trying to look out.  The van twists and
turns round the city's streets, often stopping  and  changing direction, and
you realise that it is  stopping at traffic  lights.  At last the van drives
through some huge gates and comes to a halt. The door is opened and you step
out into the courtyard of the penal battalion of the Kiev military district.
It is a military prison. Welcome to your new place of work.

        ___

     The  ancient city of  Kiev has seen conquerors from all over the  world
pass down its streets. Some of  them razed the city  to  the ground;  others
fortified it; then a third lot destroyed it again. The fortifications around
the ruined  and burnt-out  city of Kiev were built for the last time in 1943
on  Hitler's  orders.  On  the  approaches  to  Kiev  you  can  come  across
fortifications of  all ages, from the  concrete  pillboxes of  the twentieth
century to the ruins of walls that were built five hundred years before  the
arrival of Batu Khan.
     The place  you  have been brought  to is a  fort built at the  time  of
Catherine the Great. It is built on the south-west approaches to the city at
the  top of steep  cliffs covered with ancient  oaks.  Alongside  are  other
forts,  an  enormous ancient  monastery,  and an ancient  fortress which now
houses a military hospital.
     Through  the centuries military installations of  the most varied kinds
-- stores, barracks, headquarters -- have been  built  on the most dangerous
approaches to the city and, apart  from  the  basic purpose, they  have also
served as fortifications. The fort we have come to also served two purposes:
as a barracks for 500 to 700 soldiers, and as a fort. Circular in shape, its
outside walls used to have only narrow slits and broad embrasures for  guns.
These have now all been filled  in and the only remaining windows are  those
that  look  into the internal courtyard. The fort  has only  one  gateway, a
well-defended tunnel through the mighty walls. A  brick wall  has been added
around the fort.  From  the  outside it looks like a high  brick  wall  in a
narrow lane, with  yet another brick wall, higher than the first one, behind
it.
     Both  the inner  and outer  courtyards of  the  fort  are split up into
numerous  sectors and little  yards  divided  by  smaller walls and  a whole
jungle of  barbed  wire.  The sectors have  their  own strange  labels:  the
numbering has been so  devised  that no one  should be  able to  discern any
logic in it. The absence of  any  system facilitates the secrecy surrounding
the establishment.
     There  are three companies of  men undergoing punishment  and one guard
company  in the penal  battalion. The men in the guard  company have  only a
very vague idea  of who visits the  battalion  and why. They have only their
instructions which have to be carried out: the men undergoing punishment can
be  only  in the  inner  courtyard  in certain sectors; officers who  have a
triangle  stamped in their  passes  are allowed into  certain other sectors;
officers  with a  little star stamped in their passes  are allowed  to enter
other sectors; and so forth.
     Apart from the officers of the penal battalion, frequent callers at the
fort  are  officers  of  the  military  prosecutor's  office,  the  military
commandant   of  the  city,   and  officers  of  the   commandant's  office:
investigators,  lawyers.  And there is  a  sector  set  aside  for you.  The
spetsnaz intelligence  point  has  no  connection  at  all  with  the  penal
battalion. But if it were to be situated separately in some building, sooner
or later people in the vicinity would be struck by  the suspicious behaviour
of  the people  occupying the building. Here in the penal battalion you  are
hidden from curious eyes.
     The spetsnaz intelligence point is  a small military unit headed  by  a
lieutenant-colonel, who has under him a number  of officers, graduates  from
the Military-Diplomatic Academy,  and a few sergeants and privates who carry
out support  functions without having any idea (or the correct idea) of what
the officers are engaged  on.  Officers  of the  penal battalion  and  those
visiting the battalion  are not supposed to ask what goes on in your sector.
Many  years  back one of  your predecessors  appeared  to allow  himself the
luxury of  `careless  talk', to  the effect that his was  a  group reporting
directly to the officer commanding the district and investigating  cases  of
corruption among  the senior officers. This is sufficient to ensure that you
are treated with respect and not asked any more questions.
     Its location in  the penal battalion gives the spetsnaz  point a lot of
advantages: behind  such  enormous walls, the command can be sure that  your
documents will not get burnt or lost  by accident; it is under the strictest
guard, with dozens of guard dogs  and  machine-guns  mounted  in  towers  to
preserve your  peace  of mind; no  outsider interested in  what is  going on
inside  the  walls   will  ever  get  a  straight  answer;  the  independent
organisation  does  not  attract  the  attention  of  higher-ranking  Soviet
military leaders who  are  not  supposed to know about GRU and spetsnaz; and
even if an outsider knows something about you he cannot distinguish spetsnaz
officers from among the other officers visiting the old fort.
     Spetsnaz has  at its  disposal a number of prison vans exactly the same
as those belonging to the penal battalion and with similar numbers. They are
very convenient  for  bringing any person of interest  to us into  or out of
your fort at any time. What is good about the prison van is that neither the
visitor nor outsiders  can  work out exactly where the spetsnaz  point is. A
visitor can be  invited  to any well guarded  place where  there are usually
plenty of people (the headquarters, commandant's office, police station) and
then secretly brought in a closed van to the  old fort, and returned in  the
same way so  that  he gets lost in the crowd. Fortunately  there are several
such forts in the district.
     A penal  battalion,  that is to say  a military prison,  is a favourite
place  for  the  GRU to  hide its  branches  in. There  are  other  kinds of
camouflage as well -- design bureaux, missiles bases, signals centres -- but
they  all have  one  feature in  common: a  small,  secret  organisation  is
concealed within a large, carefully guarded military establishment.
     In addition to its main premises where  the safes  crammed with  secret
papers  are  kept,  the  spetsnaz  Intelligence  point  has  several  secret
apartments and small houses on the outskirts of the city.
     Having found yourself in the place I have described, you are  met by an
unhappy-looking lieutenant-colonel who has probably spent his whole  working
life at this work. He gives you a brief order: `You wear uniform only inside
the fort and if you are called to the district headquarters. The rest of the
time you wear civilian clothes.'
     `I understand, comrade lieutenant-colonel.'
     `But there's nothing for you to do  here  in the fort and even less  in
the headquarters. This is my place, not yours. I don't need any bureaucrats;
I need hunters. Go off  and  come back in a month's time  with material on a
good foreign catch.'
     `Very well.'
     `Do  you know  the territories  our district will be fighting  on in  a
war?'
     `Yes, I do.'
     `Well, I need another agent there who  could  meet up  with a  spetsnaz
group in  any  circumstances. I  am giving  you a month because you are just
beginning your  service, but the time-scale  will be stricter later  on. Off
you go, and remember that you  have got a lot of rivals in Kiev: the friends
of yours  who have already joined the Intelligence point are probably active
in the city, the KGB is also busy, and goodness knows who else is recruiting
here. And  remember -- you can slip up only once in our  business.  I  shall
never overlook a mistake, and neither will spetsnaz. In wartime you are shot
for making  a  mistake.  In  peacetime you  land in  prison. You know  which
prison?'

        ___

     That was what Kiev was like before the Chernobyl disaster. For hundreds
of years barbarians from many of the countries of Asia  and Europe had  been
doing their best to destroy my great city, but  nobody inflicted such damage
on  it as did the Communists. The history  of nuclear  energy  in the Soviet
Union is  one  -- very long -- story of crime.  The  founding  father of the
development of nuclear energy was Lavrenti Beria, the  all-powerful chief of
the secret  police  and,  as  later  became  apparent, one  of  the greatest
criminals of  the twentieth  century. The majority  of the Soviet ministers,
designers  and engineers connected with  the  development of  nuclear energy
were  kept in prisons, and not only in Stalin's time. All nuclear plants are
built  with  prison labour.  I  have personally  seen  thousands of convicts
working in  the  uranium mines in the  Kirovograd region.  (See  V. Suvorov,
Aquarium).  The convicts have  no  incentive  whatsoever  to  turn  out good
quality work.
     Sooner  or  later  this  was  bound  to  end  in  disaster.  The  paper
Literaturnaya  Ukraina1 reported  on  the criminal attitude to  construction
work  and  the  use  of  defective  materials  and  obsolete  technology  at
Chernobyl. The paper issued  a  warning that several generations  of  people
would have to pay for the irresponsible attitude  of the people in charge of
the building work. But nobody paid any attention  to  this article or others
like it; a month later the catastrophe took place.

     1 27 March 1986.

Last-modified: Tue, 28 May 2002 20:21:07 GMT
??????? ???? ?????:


